'''+9813169: Identification of a novel Drosophila SMAD on the X chromosome.TGF-beta signaling from the cell surface to the nucleus is mediated by the SMAD family of proteins, which have been grouped into three classes based upon sequence identity and function. Receptor-regulated, or pathway-restricted, SMADs (R-SMADs) are phosphorylated by ligand-specific serine/threonine kinase receptors. Phosphorylated R-SMADs oligomerize with the coactivating, or shared, SMAD (Co-SMAD) mediator and translocate to the nucleus where the complex directs transcription of downstream target genes. Inhibitory SMADs (I-SMADs) block receptor-mediated phosphorylation of R-SMADs. In Drosophila, one member of each class of SMAD has been reported: MAD, an R-SMAD, MEDEA, a Co-SMAD, and DAD, an I-SMAD. Here, we report the first identification of a novel Drosophila R-SMAD, which we have named Smox for Smad on X. We have localized the Smox gene to a specific interval on the X chromosome and shown that Smox is transcribed throughout development.''',
'''+9887103: The Drosophila activin receptor baboon signals through dSmad2 and controls cell proliferation but not patterning during larval development.The TGF-beta superfamily of growth and differentiation factors, including TGF-beta, Activins and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) play critical roles in regulating the development of many organisms. These factors signal through a heteromeric complex of type I and II serine/threonine kinase receptors that phosphorylate members of the Smad family of transcription factors, thereby promoting their nuclear localization. Although components of TGF-beta/Activin signaling pathways are well defined in vertebrates, no such pathway has been clearly defined in invertebrates. In this study we describe the role of Baboon (Babo), a type I Activin receptor previously called Atr-I, in Drosophila development and characterize aspects of the Babo intracellular signal-transduction pathway. Genetic analysis of babo loss-of-function mutants and ectopic activation studies indicate that Babo signaling plays a role in regulating cell proliferation. In mammalian cells, activated Babo specifically stimulates Smad2-dependent pathways to induce TGF-beta/Activin-responsive promoters but not BMP-responsive elements. Furthermore, we identify a new Drosophila Smad, termed dSmad2, that is most closely related to vertebrate Smads 2 and 3. Activated Babo associates with dSmad2 but not Mad, phosphorylates the carboxy-terminal SSXS motif and induces heteromeric complex formation with Medea, the Drosophila Smad4 homolog. Our results define a novel Drosophila Activin/TGF-beta pathway that is analogous to its vertebrate counterpart and show that this pathway functions to promote cellular growth with minimal effects on patterning.''',
'''+10320478: Drosophila dSmad2 and Atr-I transmit activin/TGFbeta signals.Much is known about the three subfamilies of the TGFbeta superfamily in vertebrates-the TGFbetas, dpp/BMPs, and activins. Signalling in each subfamily is dependent on both shared and unique cell surface receptors and Smads. In invertebrates, mutants for BMP pathway components have been extensively characterized, but thus far, evidence for an activin- or TGFbeta-like pathway has been lacking, preventing the use of the extensive genetic tools available for studying several key issues of TGFbeta signalling.Here we report the identification of dSmad2, a new Drosophila Smad which is most related to the activin/TGFbeta-pathway Smads, Smad2 and Smad3. We show that dSmad2 induces activin responsive genes in Xenopus animal cap assays. dSMAD2 is phosphorylated by ATR-I and PUNT, but not by activated THICK VEINS, and translocates to the nucleus upon activation. Furthermore, we show that dSMAD2 complexes with MEDEA only in the presence of ATR-I and PUNT. dSmad2 is expressed in the imaginal disks and in the outer proliferation centre of the larval brain, suggesting that it may have important proliferative and patterning roles during Drosophila development.Our data provide evidence for the existence of an activin/TGFbeta pathway in Drosophila. We show that dSmad2 participates in this pathway, and that it functions with Atr-I and punt. We show that Medea also participates in this pathway, indicating the conservation of roles for Co-Smads in diverse phyla. Expression patterns of dSmad2 suggest that it functions in imaginal disks and in the brain, in tissues that undergo extensive patterning and proliferation.''',
'''+10357889: TGF-beta family signal transduction in Drosophila development: from Mad to Smads.The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily encompasses a large group of soluble extracellular proteins that are potent regulators of development in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Drosophila TGF-beta family members include three proteins with homology to vertebrate bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs): Decapentaplegic (Dpp), Screw, and Glass bottom boat-60A. Genetic studies of Dpp signaling led to the identification of Smad proteins as central mediators of signal transduction by TGF-beta family members. Work in mammalian tissue culture has elucidated a biochemical model for signal transduction, in which activation of receptor serine-threonine kinase activity leads to phosphorylation of specific Smad proteins and translocation of heteromeric Smad protein complexes to the nucleus. Once in the nucleus Smad proteins interact with other DNA binding proteins to regulate transcription of specific target genes. Dissection of Dpp-response elements from genes expressed during embryonic mesoderm patterning and midgut morphogenesis provides important insights into the contributions of Smad proteins and tissue-specific transcription factors to spatial regulation of gene expression. Genetic studies in Drosophila are now expanding to include multiple BMP ligands and receptors and have uncovered activities not explained by the current signal transduction model. Identification of more ligand sequences and demonstration of a functional Drosophila activin-like signal transduction pathway suggest that all TGF-beta signal transduction pathways are present in flies.''',
'''+10712925: Smads as transcriptional co-modulators.The Smad signalling pathway is critical for transmitting transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily signals from the cell surface to the nucleus. In the nucleus, Smads regulate transcriptional responses by recruiting co-activators and co-repressors to a wide array of DNA-binding partners. Thus, Smads function as transcriptional co-modulators to regulate TGFbeta-dependent gene expression.''',
'''-10731132: The genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster.The fly Drosophila melanogaster is one of the most intensively studied organisms in biology and serves as a model system for the investigation of many developmental and cellular processes common to higher eukaryotes, including humans. We have determined the nucleotide sequence of nearly all of the approximately 120-megabase euchromatic portion of the Drosophila genome using a whole-genome shotgun sequencing strategy supported by extensive clone-based sequence and a high-quality bacterial artificial chromosome physical map. Efforts are under way to close the remaining gaps; however, the sequence is of sufficient accuracy and contiguity to be declared substantially complete and to support an initial analysis of genome structure and preliminary gene annotation and interpretation. The genome encodes approximately 13,600 genes, somewhat fewer than the smaller Caenorhabditis elegans genome, but with comparable functional diversity.''',
'''-10733523: Controlling TGF-beta signaling.''',
'''+10831835: Transforming growth factor beta signaling mediators and modulators.Transforming growth factor beta is a multi-functional growth and differentiation factor responsible for regulating many diverse biological processes in both vertebrate and invertebrate species. Among the most dramatic of TGFbeta's effects are those associated with specification of cell fates during development and inhibition of cell cycle progression. The core TGFbeta signaling pathway has now been described using a synergistic combination of genetic and biochemical approaches. Transmembrane receptors with intrinsic protein serine kinase activity bind ligand in the extracellular milieu and then phosphorylate intracellular proteins known as Smads. Phosphorylated Smads form heterooligomers and translocate into the nucleus where they can modulate transcriptional responses. More recent studies indicate that many other proteins serve as modulators of Smad activity, and utimately define specific cellular responses to TGFbeta. Here we describe both the simplistic core TGFbeta signaling pathway and the growing number of proteins that impinge on this pathway at the level of Smad function to either enhance or inhibit TGFbeta responses.''',
'''-12537568: Finishing a whole-genome shotgun: release 3 of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome sequence.The Drosophila melanogaster genome was the first metazoan genome to have been sequenced by the whole-genome shotgun (WGS) method. Two issues relating to this achievement were widely debated in the genomics community: how correct is the sequence with respect to base-pair (bp) accuracy and frequency of assembly errors? And, how difficult is it to bring a WGS sequence to the accepted standard for finished sequence? We are now in a position to answer these questions.Our finishing process was designed to close gaps, improve sequence quality and validate the assembly. Sequence traces derived from the WGS and draft sequencing of individual bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) were assembled into BAC-sized segments. These segments were brought to high quality, and then joined to constitute the sequence of each chromosome arm. Overall assembly was verified by comparison to a physical map of fingerprinted BAC clones. In the current version of the 116.9 Mb euchromatic genome, called Release 3, the six euchromatic chromosome arms are represented by 13 scaffolds with a total of 37 sequence gaps. We compared Release 3 to Release 2; in autosomal regions of unique sequence, the error rate of Release 2 was one in 20,000 bp.The WGS strategy can efficiently produce a high-quality sequence of a metazoan genome while generating the reagents required for sequence finishing. However, the initial method of repeat assembly was flawed. The sequence we report here, Release 3, is a reliable resource for molecular genetic experimentation and computational analysis.''',
'''-12537572: Annotation of the Drosophila melanogaster euchromatic genome: a systematic review.The recent completion of the Drosophila melanogaster genomic sequence to high quality and the availability of a greatly expanded set of Drosophila cDNA sequences, aligning to 78% of the predicted euchromatic genes, afforded FlyBase the opportunity to significantly improve genomic annotations. We made the annotation process more rigorous by inspecting each gene visually, utilizing a comprehensive set of curation rules, requiring traceable evidence for each gene model, and comparing each predicted peptide to SWISS-PROT and TrEMBL sequences.Although the number of predicted protein-coding genes in Drosophila remains essentially unchanged, the revised annotation significantly improves gene models, resulting in structural changes to 85% of the transcripts and 45% of the predicted proteins. We annotated transposable elements and non-protein-coding RNAs as new features, and extended the annotation of untranslated (UTR) sequences and alternative transcripts to include more than 70% and 20% of genes, respectively. Finally, cDNA sequence provided evidence for dicistronic transcripts, neighboring genes with overlapping UTRs on the same DNA sequence strand, alternatively spliced genes that encode distinct, non-overlapping peptides, and numerous nested genes.Identification of so many unusual gene models not only suggests that some mechanisms for gene regulation are more prevalent than previously believed, but also underscores the complex challenges of eukaryotic gene prediction. At present, experimental data and human curation remain essential to generate high-quality genome annotations.''',
