'''+16951053: dSno facilitates baboon signaling in the Drosophila brain by switching the affinity of Medea away from Mad and toward dSmad2.A screen for modifiers of Dpp adult phenotypes led to the identification of the Drosophila homolog of the Sno oncogene (dSno). The dSno locus is large, transcriptionally complex and contains a recent retrotransposon insertion that may be essential for dSno function, an intriguing possibility from the perspective of developmental evolution. dSno is highly transcribed in the embryonic central nervous system and transcripts are most abundant in third instar larvae. dSno mutant larvae have proliferation defects in the optic lobe of the brain very similar to those seen in baboon (Activin type I receptor) and dSmad2 mutants. This suggests that dSno is a mediator of Baboon signaling. dSno binds to Medea and Medea/dSno complexes have enhanced affinity for dSmad2. Alternatively, Medea/dSno complexes have reduced affinity for Mad such that, in the presence of dSno, Dpp signaling is antagonized. We propose that dSno functions as a switch in optic lobe development, shunting Medea from the Dpp pathway to the Activin pathway to ensure proper proliferation. Pathway switching in target cells is a previously unreported mechanism for regulating TGFbeta signaling and a novel function for Sno/Ski family proteins.''',
'''+17119021: The metalloprotease tolloid-related and its TGF-beta-like substrate Dawdle regulate Drosophila motoneuron axon guidance.Proper axon pathfinding requires that growth cones execute appropriate turns and branching at particular choice points en route to their synaptic targets. Here we demonstrate that the Drosophila metalloprotease tolloid-related (tlr) is required for proper fasciculation/defasciculation of motor axons in the CNS and for normal guidance of many motor axons enroute to their muscle targets. Tlr belongs to a family of developmentally important proteases that process various extracellular matrix components, as well as several TGF-beta inhibitory proteins and pro-peptides. We show that Tlr is a circulating enzyme that processes the pro-domains of three Drosophila TGF-beta-type ligands, and, in the case of the Activin-like protein Dawdle (Daw), this processing enhances the signaling activity of the ligand in vitro and in vivo. Null mutants of daw, as well as mutations in its receptor babo and its downstream mediator Smad2, all exhibit axon guidance defects that are similar to but less severe than tlr. We suggest that by activating Daw and perhaps other TGF-beta ligands, Tlr provides a permissive signal for axon guidance.''',
'''+17119022: The divergent TGF-beta ligand Dawdle utilizes an activin pathway to influence axon guidance in Drosophila.Axon guidance is regulated by intrinsic factors and extrinsic cues provided by other neurons, glia and target muscles. Dawdle (Daw), a divergent TGF-beta superfamily ligand expressed in glia and mesoderm, is required for embryonic motoneuron pathfinding in Drosophila. In daw mutants, ISNb and SNa axons fail to extend completely and are unable to innervate their targets. We find that Daw initiates an activin signaling pathway via the receptors Punt and Baboon (Babo) and the signal-transducer Smad2. Furthermore, mutations in these signaling components display similar axon guidance defects. Cell-autonomous disruption of receptor signaling suggests that Babo is required in motoneurons rather than in muscles or glia. Ectopic ligand expression can rescue the daw phenotype, but has no deleterious effects. Our results indicate that Daw functions in a permissive manner to modulate or enable the growth cone response to other restricted guidance cues, and support a novel role for activin signaling in axon guidance.''',
'''+17434471: Characterization of dSnoN and its relationship to Decapentaplegic signaling in Drosophila.Vertebrate members of the ski/snoN family of proto-oncogenes antagonize TGFbeta and BMP signaling in a variety of experimental situations. This activity of Ski/SnoN proteins is related to their ability to interact with Smads, the proteins acting as key mediators of the transcriptional response to the TGFbeta superfamily members. However, despite extensive efforts to identify the physiological roles of the Ski/SnoN proteins, it is not yet clear whether they participate in regulating Activin and/or BMP signaling during normal development. It is therefore crucial to examine their roles in vivo mostly because of the large number of known Ski/SnoN-interacting proteins and the association between the up-regulation of these genes and cancer progression. Here we characterize the Drosophila homolog to vertebrate ski and snoN genes. The Drosophila dSnoN protein retains the ability of its vertebrate counterparts to antagonize BMP signaling in vivo and in cultured cells. dSnoN does not interfere with Mad phosphorylation but it interacts genetically with Mad, Medea and dSmad2. Mutations in either the Smad2-3 or Smad4 putative binding sites of dSnoN prevent the antagonism of dSnoN towards Dpp signaling, although homozygous flies for these mutations or for a genetic deficiency of the locus are viable and have wings of normal size and pattern.''',
'''+17651718: TGFbeta receptor saxophone non-autonomously regulates germline proliferation in a Smox/dSmad2-dependent manner in Drosophila testis.Elucidating the regulatory mechanism of cell proliferation is central to the understanding of cancer development or organ size control. Drosophila spermatogenesis provides an excellent model to study cell proliferation since the germline cells mitotically amplify in a precise manner. However, the underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive. Germ cells derived from each gonialblast develop synchronously as one unit encapsulated by two somatic support cells (called cyst cells). Components of TGFbeta pathway have previously been found to restrict germ cell proliferation via their functions in cyst cells. Here we report that saxophone (sax), a TGFbeta type I receptor, is required in somatic cells to prevent the mitotically dividing spermatogonia from over-amplifying. Using various approaches, we demonstrate that Mad (Mothers against Dpp), a receptor-Smad usually associated with Sax-mediated TGFbeta/BMP signaling, is dispensable in this process. Instead, Smox (Smad on X, Drosophila Smad2), the other receptor-Smad formerly characterized in TGFbeta/activin signaling, is necessary for the precise mitotic divisions of spermatogonia. Furthermore, over-expressing Smox in cyst cells can partially rescue the proliferation phenotype induced by sax mutation. We propose that Smox acts downstream of Sax to prevent spermatogonial over-proliferation in Drosophila.''',
'''+18054857: Tiling of r7 axons in the Drosophila visual system is mediated both by transduction of an activin signal to the nucleus and by mutual repulsion.The organization of neuronal wiring into layers and columns is a common feature of both vertebrate and invertebrate brains. In the Drosophila visual system, each R7 photoreceptor axon projects within a single column to a specific layer of the optic lobe. We refer to the restriction of terminals to single columns as tiling. In a genetic screen based on an R7-dependent behavior, we identified the Activin receptor Baboon and the nuclear import adaptor Importin-alpha3 as being required to prevent R7 axon terminals from overlapping with the terminals of R7s in neighboring columns. This tiling function requires the Baboon ligand, dActivin, the transcription factor, dSmad2, and retrograde transport from the growth cone to the R7 nucleus. We propose that dActivin is an autocrine signal that restricts R7 growth cone motility, and we demonstrate that it acts in parallel with a paracrine signal that mediates repulsion between R7 terminals.''',
'''+18077144: Drosophila Follistatin exhibits unique structural modifications and interacts with several TGF-beta family members.Follistatin (FS) is one of several secreted proteins that modulate the activity of TGF-beta family members during development. The structural and functional analysis of Drosophila Follistatin (dFS) reveals important differences between dFS and its vertebrate orthologues: it is larger, more positively charged, and proteolytically processed. dFS primarily inhibits signaling of Drosophila Activin (dACT) but can also inhibit other ligands like Decapentaplegic (DPP). In contrast, the presence of dFS enhances signaling of the Activin-like protein Dawdle (DAW), indicating that dFS exhibits a dual function in promoting and inhibiting signaling of TGF-beta ligands. In addition, FS proteins may also function in facilitating ligand diffusion. We find that mutants of daw are rescued in significant numbers by expression of vertebrate FS proteins. Since two PiggyBac insertions in dfs are not lethal, it appears that the function of dFS is non-essential or functionally redundant.''',
'''+18171686: Drosophila Activin- and the Activin-like product Dawdle function redundantly to regulate proliferation in the larval brain.The Drosophila Activin-like ligands Activin-beta and Dawdle control several aspects of neuronal morphogenesis, including mushroom body remodeling, dorsal neuron morphogenesis and motoneuron axon guidance. Here we show that the same two ligands act redundantly through the Activin receptor Babo and its transcriptional mediator Smad2 (Smox), to regulate neuroblast numbers and proliferation rates in the developing larval brain. Blocking this pathway results in the development of larvae with small brains and aberrant photoreceptor axon targeting, and restoring babo function in neuroblasts rescued these mutant phenotypes. These results suggest that the Activin signaling pathway is required for producing the proper number of neurons to enable normal connection of incoming photoreceptor axons to their targets. Furthermore, as the Activin pathway plays a key role in regulating propagation of mouse and human embryonic stem cells, our observation that it also regulates neuroblast numbers and proliferation in Drosophila suggests that involvement of Activins in controlling stem cell propagation may be a common regulatory feature of this family of TGF-beta-type ligands.''',

'''-17569856: The Release 5.1 annotation of Drosophila melanogaster heterochromatin.The repetitive DNA that constitutes most of the heterochromatic regions of metazoan genomes has hindered the comprehensive analysis of gene content and other functions. We have generated a detailed computational and manual annotation of 24 megabases of heterochromatic sequence in the Release 5 Drosophila melanogaster genome sequence. The heterochromatin contains a minimum of 230 to 254 protein-coding genes, which are conserved in other Drosophilids and more diverged species, as well as 32 pseudogenes and 13 noncoding RNAs. Improved methods revealed that more than 77% of this heterochromatin sequence, including introns and intergenic regions, is composed of fragmented and nested transposable elements and other repeated DNAs. Drosophila heterochromatin contains "islands" of highly conserved genes embedded in these "oceans" of complex repeats, which may require special expression and splicing mechanisms.''',
'''-17569867: Sequence finishing and mapping of Drosophila melanogaster heterochromatin.Genome sequences for most metazoans and plants are incomplete because of the presence of repeated DNA in the heterochromatin. The heterochromatic regions of Drosophila melanogaster contain 20 million bases (Mb) of sequence amenable to mapping, sequence assembly, and finishing. We describe the generation of 15 Mb of finished or improved heterochromatic sequence with the use of available clone resources and assembly methods. We also constructed a bacterial artificial chromosome-based physical map that spans 13 Mb of the pericentromeric heterochromatin and a cytogenetic map that positions 11 Mb in specific chromosomal locations. We have approached a complete assembly and mapping of the nonsatellite component of Drosophila heterochromatin. The strategy we describe is also applicable to generating substantially more information about heterochromatin in other species, including humans.''',
