'''+18588885: Specificity of the inhibitory effects of Dad on TGF-beta family type I receptors, Thickveins, Saxophone, and Baboon in Drosophila.In mammals, two inhibitory Smads (I-Smads), Smad6 and Smad7, play pivotal roles in negative regulation of TGF-beta family signaling. Smad7 ubiquitously inhibits TGF-beta family signaling, whereas Smad6 inhibits signaling from the ALK-3/6 subfamily in preference to that from the ALK-1/2 and ALK-4/5/7 subfamilies of TGF-beta family type I receptors. In Drosophila, only one I-Smad, Dad, has been identified. Here we examined inhibitory effects of Dad on type I receptors in Drosophila. Dad inhibited Saxophone (ALK-1/2 orthologue) and Thickveins (ALK-3/6 orthologue) but not Baboon (ALK-4/5/7 orthologue). The differential modes of action of I-Smads in mammals and Drosophila are discussed.''',
'''+18820452: Distinct signaling of Drosophila Activin/TGF-beta family members.Growth factors of the TGF-beta family signal through type I/II receptor complexes that phosphorylate SMAD transcription factors. In this study, we analyzed signaling of all seven TGF-beta members to identify those that mediate growth through the Drosophila type I receptor BABO. We find that two potential ligands of BABO, Myoglianin (MYO) and Maverick (MAV), do not activate dSMAD2. Only Drosophila Activin (dACT) and the Activin-like ligand Dawdle (DAW) signal through BABO in combination with the type II receptor PUNT and activate dSMAD2. Surprisingly, we find that activation of BABO can also lead to the phosphorylation of the "BMP-specific" MAD. In wing discs, expression of an activated form of dSMAD2 promotes growth similar to dACT and activated BABO. By itself, activated dSMAD2 does not affect DPP/GBB target genes. However, coexpression of activated forms of dSMAD2 and MAD additively induces the expression of spalt. In contrast to dACT, we find that DAW does not promote growth when expressed in wings. In fact, coexpression of DAW with MAD or dSMAD2 decreases growth. daw mutants die primarily during larval stages and exhibit anal pad phenotypes reminiscent of babo mutants. The rescue of daw mutants by restricted expression in neuroendocrine cells indicates that Activin-type ligands are likely distributed through the endocrine system. The distinct signaling of dACT, DAW and MYO through BABO suggests the existence of co-receptors that modulate the canonical SMAD pathway.''',
'''+19004854: TGF-beta signals regulate axonal development through distinct Smad-independent mechanisms.Proper nerve connections form when growing axons terminate at the correct postsynaptic target. Here I show that Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) signals regulate axon growth. In most contexts, TGFbeta signals are tightly linked to Smad transcriptional activity. Although known to exist, how Smad-independent pathways mediate TGFbeta responses in vivo is unclear. In Drosophila mushroom body (MB) neurons, loss of the TGFbeta receptor Baboon (Babo) results in axon overextension. Conversely, misexpression of constitutively active Babo results in premature axon termination. Smad activity is not required for these phenotypes. This study shows that Babo signals require the Rho GTPases Rho1 and Rac, and LIM kinase1 (LIMK1), which regulate the actin cytoskeleton. Contrary to the well-established receptor activation model, in which type 1 receptors act downstream of type 2 receptors, this study shows that the type 2 receptors Wishful thinking (Wit) and Punt act downstream of the Babo type 1 receptor. Wit and Punt regulate axon growth independently, and interchangeably, through LIMK1-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Thus, novel TGFbeta receptor interactions control non-Smad signals and regulate multiple aspects of axonal development in vivo.''',
'''+19766717: The Drosophila Activin-like ligand Dawdle signals preferentially through one isoform of the Type-I receptor Baboon.How TGF-beta-type ligands achieve signaling specificity during development is only partially understood. Here, we show that Dawdle, one of four Activin-type ligands in Drosophila, preferentially signals through Babo(c), one of three isoforms of the Activin Type-I receptor that are expressed during development. In cell culture, Dawdle signaling is active in the presence of the Type-II receptor Punt but not Wit, demonstrating that the Type-II receptor also contributes to the specificity of the signaling complex. During development, different larval tissues express unique combinations of these receptors, and ectopic expression of Babo(c) in a tissue where it is not normally expressed at high levels can make that tissue sensitive to Dawdle signaling. These results reveal a mechanism by which distinct cell types can discriminate between different Activin-type signals during development as a result of differential expression of Type-I receptor isoforms.''',
'''+20346940: Activin signaling functions upstream of Gbb to regulate synaptic growth at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction.Activins are members of the TGF-ss superfamily of secreted growth factors that control a diverse array of processes in vertebrates including endocrine function, cell proliferation, differentiation, immune response and wound repair. In Drosophila, the Activin ligand Dawdle (Daw) has been shown to regulate several aspects of neuronal development such as embryonic axonal pathfinding, neuroblast proliferation in the larval brain and growth cone motility in the visual system. Here we identify a novel role for Activin signaling in regulating synaptic growth at the larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Mutants for Daw, the Activin type I receptor Baboon (Babo), and the signal transducer dSmad2, display reduced NMJ size suggesting that Daw utilizes a canonical Activin signal-transduction pathway in this context. Additionally, loss of Daw/Babo activity affects microtubule stability, axonal transport and distribution of Futsch, the Drosophila microtubule associated protein 1B (MAP1B) homolog. We find that Babo signaling is required postsynaptically in the muscle, in contrast to the well-characterized retrograde BMP/Gbb signal that is required for synaptic growth and function in presynaptic cells. Finally, we show that the Daw/Babo pathway acts upstream of gbb, and is involved in maintenance of muscle gbb expression, suggesting that Activins regulate NMJ growth by modulating BMP activity through transcriptional regulation of ligand expression.''',
'''+21613324: Neuroendocrine regulation of Drosophila metamorphosis requires TGFbeta/Activin signaling.In insects, initiation of metamorphosis requires a surge in the production of the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone from the prothoracic gland, the primary endocrine organ of juvenile larvae. Here, we show that blocking TGFβ/Activin signaling, specifically in the Drosophila prothoracic gland, results in developmental arrest prior to metamorphosis. The terminal, giant third instar larval phenotype results from a failure to induce the large rise in ecdysteroid titer that triggers metamorphosis. We further demonstrate that activin signaling regulates competence of the prothoracic gland to receive PTTH and insulin signals, and that these two pathways act at the mRNA and post-transcriptional levels, respectively, to control ecdysone biosynthetic enzyme expression. This dual regulatory circuitry may provide a cross-check mechanism to ensure that both developmental and nutritional inputs are synchronized before initiating the final genetic program leading to reproductive adult development. As steroid hormone production in C. elegans and mammals is also influenced by TGFβ/Activin signaling, this family of secreted factors may play a general role in regulating developmental transitions across phyla.''',
'''+22563507: R-Smad competition controls activin receptor output in Drosophila.Animals use TGF-β superfamily signal transduction pathways during development and tissue maintenance. The superfamily has traditionally been divided into TGF-β/Activin and BMP branches based on relationships between ligands, receptors, and R-Smads. Several previous reports have shown that, in cell culture systems, "BMP-specific" Smads can be phosphorylated in response to TGF-β/Activin pathway activation. Using Drosophila cell culture as well as in vivo assays, we find that Baboon, the Drosophila TGF-β/Activin-specific Type I receptor, can phosphorylate Mad, the BMP-specific R-Smad, in addition to its normal substrate, dSmad2. The Baboon-Mad activation appears direct because it occurs in the absence of canonical BMP Type I receptors. Wing phenotypes generated by Baboon gain-of-function require Mad, and are partially suppressed by over-expression of dSmad2. In the larval wing disc, activated Baboon cell-autonomously causes C-terminal Mad phosphorylation, but only when endogenous dSmad2 protein is depleted. The Baboon-Mad relationship is thus controlled by dSmad2 levels. Elevated P-Mad is seen in several tissues of dSmad2 protein-null mutant larvae, and these levels are normalized in dSmad2; baboon double mutants, indicating that the cross-talk reaction and Smad competition occur with endogenous levels of signaling components in vivo. In addition, we find that high levels of Activin signaling cause substantial turnover in dSmad2 protein, providing a potential cross-pathway signal-switching mechanism. We propose that the dual activity of TGF-β/Activin receptors is an ancient feature, and we discuss several ways this activity can modulate TGF-β signaling output.''',
'''+22874913: Drosophila CORL is required for Smad2-mediated activation of Ecdysone Receptor expression in the mushroom body.CORL proteins (FUSSEL/SKOR proteins in humans) are related to Sno/Ski oncogenes but their developmental roles are unknown. We have cloned Drosophila CORL and show that its expression is restricted to distinct subsets of cells in the central nervous system. We generated a deletion of CORL and noted that homozygous individuals rarely survive to adulthood. Df(4)dCORL adult escapers display mushroom body (MB) defects and Df(4)dCORL larvae are lacking Ecdysone Receptor (EcR-B1) expression in MB neurons. This is phenocopied in CORL-RNAi and Smad2-RNAi clones in wild-type larvae. Furthermore, constitutively active Baboon (type I receptor upstream of Smad2) cannot stimulate EcR-B1 MB expression in Df(4)dCORL larvae, which demonstrates a formal requirement for CORL in Smad2 signaling. Studies of mouse Corl1 (Skor1) revealed that it binds specifically to Smad3. Overall, the data suggest that CORL facilitates Smad2 activity upstream of EcR-B1 in the MB. The conservation of neural expression and strong sequence homology of all CORL proteins suggests that this is a new family of Smad co-factors.''',

'''-20220848: Systematic genetic analysis of muscle morphogenesis and function in Drosophila.Systematic genetic approaches have provided deep insight into the molecular and cellular mechanisms that operate in simple unicellular organisms. For multicellular organisms, however, the pleiotropy of gene function has largely restricted such approaches to the study of early embryogenesis. With the availability of genome-wide transgenic RNA interference (RNAi) libraries in Drosophila, it is now possible to perform a systematic genetic dissection of any cell or tissue type at any stage of the lifespan. Here we apply these methods to define the genetic basis for formation and function of the Drosophila muscle. We identify a role in muscle for 2,785 genes, many of which we assign to specific functions in the organization of muscles, myofibrils or sarcomeres. Many of these genes are phylogenetically conserved, including genes implicated in mammalian sarcomere organization and human muscle diseases.''',
'''-20800474: A step-by-step guide to visual circuit assembly in Drosophila.The ability of vertebrates and insects to perceive and process information about the visual world is mediated by neural circuits, which share a strikingly conserved architecture of reiterated columnar and layered synaptic units. Recent genetic approaches conferring single-cell resolution have enabled major advances in our understanding of the cellular and molecular strategies that orchestrate visual circuit assembly in Drosophila. Photoreceptor axon targeting relies on a sequence of interdependent developmental steps to achieve temporal coordination with the formation and maturation of partner neurons. Distinct targeting events depend on anterograde and autocrine signaling, neuron-glia interactions, axon tiling and the timely expression of homophilic cell surface molecules. These mediate local adhesive or repulsive interactions of photoreceptor axons with each other and with target neurons.''',
