'''+28108836: SMAD dependent signaling plays a detrimental role in a fly model of SMARCB1-deficiency and the biology of atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors.Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors (ATRT) are highly malignant brain tumors arising in young children. The majority of ATRT is characterized by inactivation of the chromatin remodeling complex member SMARCB1 (INI1/hSNF5). Little is known, however, on downstream pathways involved in the detrimental effects of SMARCB1 deficiency which might also represent targets for treatment. Using Drosophila melanogaster and the Gal4-UAS system, modifier screens were performed in order to identify the role of SMAD dependent signaling in the lethal phenotype associated with knockdown of snr1, the fly homolog of SMARCB1. Expression and functional role of human homologs was next investigated in ATRT tumor samples and SMARCB1-deficient rhabdoid tumor cells. The lethal phenotype associated with snr1 knockdown in Drosophila melanogaster could be shifted to later stages of development upon additional knockdown of several decapentaplegic pathway members including Smox, and Med. Similarly, the transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) receptor type I kinase inhibitor SB431542 ameliorated the detrimental effect of snr1 knockdown in the fruit fly. Examination of homologs of candidate decapentaplegic pathway members in human SMARCB1-deficent ATRT samples revealed SMAD3 and SMAD6 to be over-expressed. In SMARCB1-deficent rhabdoid tumor cells, siRNA-mediated silencing of SMAD3 or SMAD6 expression reduced TGFbeta signaling activity and resulted in decreased proliferation. Similar results were obtained upon pharmacological inhibition of TGFbeta signaling using SB431542. Our data suggest that SMAD dependent signaling is involved in the detrimental effects of SMARCB1-deficiency and provide a rationale for the investigation of TGFbeta targeted treatments in ATRT.''',
'''+28123053: TGFβ/Activin signalling is required for ribosome biogenesis and cell growth in Drosophila salivary glands.Signalling by TGFβ superfamily factors plays an important role in tissue growth and cell proliferation. In Drosophila, the activity of the TGFβ/Activin signalling branch has been linked to the regulation of cell growth and proliferation, but the cellular and molecular basis for these functions are not fully understood. In this study, we show that both the RII receptor Punt (Put) and the R-Smad Smad2 are strongly required for cell and tissue growth. Knocking down the expression of Put or Smad2 in salivary glands causes alterations in nucleolar structure and functions. Cells with decreased TGFβ/Activin signalling accumulate intermediate pre-rRNA transcripts containing internal transcribed spacer 1 regions accompanied by the nucleolar retention of ribosomal proteins. Thus, our results show that TGFβ/Activin signalling is required for ribosomal biogenesis, a key aspect of cellular growth control. Importantly, overexpression of Put enhanced cell growth induced by Drosophila Myc, a well-characterized inducer of nucleolar hypertrophy and ribosome biogenesis.''',
'''+28178568: Midgut-Derived Activin Regulates Glucagon-like Action in the Fat Body and Glycemic Control.While high-caloric diet impairs insulin response to cause hyperglycemia, whether and how counter-regulatory hormones are modulated by high-caloric diet is largely unknown. We find that enhanced response of Drosophila adipokinetic hormone (AKH, the glucagon homolog) in the fat body is essential for hyperglycemia associated with a chronic high-sugar diet. We show that the activin type I receptor Baboon (Babo) autonomously increases AKH signaling without affecting insulin signaling in the fat body via, at least, increase of Akh receptor (AkhR) expression. Further, we demonstrate that Activin-β (Actβ), an activin ligand predominantly produced in the enteroendocrine cells (EEs) of the midgut, is upregulated by chronic high-sugar diet and signals through Babo to promote AKH action in the fat body, leading to hyperglycemia. Importantly, activin signaling in mouse primary hepatocytes also increases glucagon response and glucagon-induced glucose production, indicating a conserved role for activin in enhancing AKH/glucagon signaling and glycemic control.''',
'''+28739899: Activin signaling mediates muscle-to-adipose communication in a mitochondria dysfunction-associated obesity model.Mitochondrial dysfunction has been associated with obesity and metabolic disorders. However, whether mitochondrial perturbation in a single tissue influences mitochondrial function and metabolic status of another distal tissue remains largely unknown. We analyzed the nonautonomous role of muscular mitochondrial dysfunction in <i>Drosophila</i> Surprisingly, impaired muscle mitochondrial function via complex I perturbation results in simultaneous mitochondrial dysfunction in the fat body (the fly adipose tissue) and subsequent triglyceride accumulation, the major characteristic of obesity. RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis, in the context of muscle mitochondrial dysfunction, revealed that target genes of the TGF-β signaling pathway were induced in the fat body. Strikingly, expression of the TGF-β family ligand, Activin-β (Actβ), was dramatically increased in the muscles by NF-κB/Relish (Rel) signaling in response to mitochondrial perturbation, and decreasing Actβ expression in mitochondrial-perturbed muscles rescued both the fat body mitochondrial dysfunction and obesity phenotypes. Thus, perturbation of muscle mitochondrial activity regulates mitochondrial function in the fat body nonautonomously via modulation of Activin signaling.''',
'''+28748922: Regulation of Drosophila hematopoietic sites by Activin-β from active sensory neurons.An outstanding question in animal development, tissue homeostasis and disease is how cell populations adapt to sensory inputs. During Drosophila larval development, hematopoietic sites are in direct contact with sensory neuron clusters of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), and blood cells (hemocytes) require the PNS for their survival and recruitment to these microenvironments, known as Hematopoietic Pockets. Here we report that Activin-β, a TGF-β family ligand, is expressed by sensory neurons of the PNS and regulates the proliferation and adhesion of hemocytes. These hemocyte responses depend on PNS activity, as shown by agonist treatment and transient silencing of sensory neurons. Activin-β has a key role in this regulation, which is apparent from reporter expression and mutant analyses. This mechanism of local sensory neurons controlling blood cell adaptation invites evolutionary parallels with vertebrate hematopoietic progenitors and the independent myeloid system of tissue macrophages, whose regulation by local microenvironments remain undefined.''',
'''+28853393: Parallel Activin and BMP signaling coordinates R7/R8 photoreceptor subtype pairing in the stochastic <i>Drosophila</i> retina.<i>Drosophila</i> color vision is achieved by comparing outputs from two types of color-sensitive photoreceptors, R7 and R8. Ommatidia (unit eyes) are classified into two subtypes, known as 'pale' or 'yellow', depending on Rhodopsin expression in R7 and R8. Subtype specification is controlled by a stochastic decision in R7 and instructed to the underlying R8. We find that the Activin receptor Baboon is required in R8 to receive non-redundant signaling from the three Activin ligands, activating the transcription factor dSmad2. Concomitantly, two BMP ligands activate their receptor, Thickveins, and the transcriptional effector, Mad. The Amon TGFβ processing factor appears to regulate components of the TGFβ pathway specifically in pale R7. Mad and dSmad2 cooperate to modulate the Hippo pathway kinase Warts and the growth regulator Melted; two opposing factors of a bi-stable loop regulating R8 Rhodopsin expression. Therefore, TGFβ and growth pathways interact in postmitotic cells to precisely coordinate cell-specific output.''',
'''+30049242: Transcriptional up-regulation of the TGF-β intracellular signaling transducer Mad of Drosophila larvae in response to parasitic nematode infection.The common fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster is an exceptional model for dissecting innate immunity. However, our knowledge on responses to parasitic nematode infections still lags behind. Recent studies have demonstrated that the well-conserved TGF-β signaling pathway participates in immune processes of the fly, including the anti-nematode response. To elucidate the molecular basis of TGF-β anti-nematode activity, we performed a transcript level analysis of different TGF-β signaling components following infection of D. melanogaster larvae with the nematode parasite Heterorhabditis gerrardi. We found no significant changes in the transcript level of most extracellular ligands in both bone morphogenic protein (BMP) and activin branches of the TGF-β signaling pathway between nematode-infected larvae and uninfected controls. However, extracellular ligand, Scw, and Type I receptor, Sax, in the BMP pathway as well as the Type I receptor, Babo, in the activin pathway were substantially up-regulated following H. gerrardi infection. Our results suggest that receptor up-regulation leads to transcriptional up-regulation of the intracellular component Mad in response to H. gerrardi following changes in gene expression of intracellular receptors of both TGF-β signaling branches. These findings identify the involvement of certain TGF-β signaling pathway components in the immune signal transduction of D. melanogaster larvae against parasitic nematodes .'''

'''-28130362: TGF-β Family Signaling in <i>Drosophila</i>.The transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) family signaling pathway is conserved and ubiquitous in animals. In <i>Drosophila</i>, fewer representatives of each signaling component are present compared with vertebrates, simplifying mechanistic study of the pathway. Although there are fewer family members, the TGF-β family pathway still regulates multiple and diverse functions in <i>Drosophila.</i> In this review, we focus our attention on several of the classic and best-studied functions for TGF-β family signaling in regulating <i>Drosophila</i> developmental processes such as embryonic and imaginal disc patterning, but we also describe several recently discovered roles in regulating hormonal, physiological, neuronal, innate immunity, and tissue homeostatic processes.''',
'''-26667894: Transcriptional regulation of insect steroid hormone biosynthesis and its role in controlling timing of molting and metamorphosis.The developmental transition from juvenile to adult is often accompanied by many systemic changes in morphology, metabolism, and reproduction. Curiously, both mammalian puberty and insect metamorphosis are triggered by a pulse of steroid hormones, which can harmonize gene expression profiles in the body and thus orchestrate drastic biological changes. However, understanding of how the timing of steroid hormone biosynthesis is regulated at the molecular level is poor. The principal insect steroid hormone, ecdysteroid, is biosynthesized from dietary cholesterol in the specialized endocrine organ called the prothoracic gland. The periodic pulses of ecdysteroid titers determine the timing of molting and metamorphosis. To date, at least nine families of ecdysteroidogenic enzyme genes have been identified. Expression levels of these genes correlate well with ecdysteroid titers, indicating that the transcriptional regulatory network plays a critical role in regulating the ecdysteroid biosynthesis pathway. In this article, we summarize the transcriptional regulation of ecdysteroid biosynthesis. We first describe the development of prothoracic gland cells during Drosophila embryogenesis, and then provide an overview of the transcription factors that act in ecdysteroid biosynthesis and signaling. We also discuss the external signaling pathways that target these transcriptional regulators. Furthermore, we describe conserved and/or diverse aspects of steroid hormone biosynthesis in insect species as well as vertebrates. ''',
'''-28421183: Organ-to-Organ Communication: A <i>Drosophila</i> Gastrointestinal Tract Perspective.The long-term maintenance of an organism's homeostasis and health relies on the accurate regulation of organ-organ communication. Recently, there has been growing interest in using the <i>Drosophila</i> gastrointestinal tract to elucidate the regulatory programs that underlie the complex interactions between organs. Data obtained in this field have dramatically improved our understanding of how organ-organ communication contributes to the regulation of various aspects of the intestine, including its metabolic and physiological status. However, although research uncovering regulatory programs associated with interorgan communication has provided key insights, the underlying mechanisms have not been extensively explored. In this review, we highlight recent findings describing gut-neighbor and neighbor-neighbor communication models in adults and larvae, respectively, with a special focus on how a range of critical strategies concerning continuous interorgan communication and adjustment can be used to manipulate different aspects of biological processes. Given the high degree of similarity between the <i>Drosophila</i> and mammalian intestinal epithelia, it can be anticipated that further analyses of the <i>Drosophila</i> gastrointestinal tract will facilitate the discovery of similar mechanisms underlying organ-organ communication in other mammalian organs, such as the human intestine.''',
'''-29615416: The <i>Drosophila</i> TGF-beta/Activin-like ligands Dawdle and Myoglianin appear to modulate adult lifespan through regulation of 26S proteasome function in adult muscle.The <i>Drosophila</i> Activin signaling pathway employs at least three separate ligands - Activin-β (Actβ), Dawdle (Daw), and Myoglianin (Myo) - to regulate several general aspects of fruit fly larval development, including cell proliferation, neuronal remodeling, and metabolism. Here we provide experimental evidence indicating that both Daw and Myo are anti-ageing factors in adult fruit flies. Knockdown of Myo or Daw in adult fruit flies reduced mean lifespan, while overexpression of either ligand in adult muscle tissues but not in adipose tissues enhanced mean lifespan. An examination of ubiquitinated protein aggregates in adult muscles revealed a strong inverse correlation between Myo- or Daw-initiated Activin signaling and the amount of ubiquitinated protein aggregates. We show that this correlation has important functional implications by demonstrating that the lifespan extension effect caused by overexpression of wild-type Daw or Myo in adult muscle tissues can be completely abrogated by knockdown of a 26S proteasome regulatory subunit Rpn1 in adult fly muscle, and that the prolonged lifespan caused by overexpression of Daw or Myo in adult muscle could be due to enhanced protein levels of the key subunits of 26S proteasome. Overall, our data suggest that Activin signaling initiated by Myo and Daw in adult <i>Drosophila</i> muscles influences lifespan, in part, by modulation of protein homeostasis through either direct or indirect regulation of the 26S proteasome levels. Since Myo is closely related to the vertebrate muscle mass regulator Myostatin (GDF8) and the Myostatin paralog GDF11, our observations may offer a new experimental model for probing the roles of GDF11/8 in ageing regulation in vertebrates.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.''',