"pmid"	"text"	"hit"
"32610141"	"Molecular Stressors Engender Protein Connectivity Dysfunction through Aberrant N-Glycosylation of a Chaperone.Stresses associated with disease may pathologically remodel the proteome by both increasing interaction strength and altering interaction partners, resulting in proteome-wide connectivity dysfunctions. Chaperones play an important role in these alterations, but how these changes are executed remains largely unknown. Our study unveils a specific N-glycosylation pattern used by a chaperone, Glucose-regulated protein 94 (GRP94), to alter its conformational fitness and stabilize a state most permissive for stable interactions with proteins at the plasma membrane. This ""protein assembly mutation' remodels protein networks and properties of the cell. We show in cells, human specimens, and mouse xenografts that proteome connectivity is restorable by inhibition of the N-glycosylated GRP94 variant. In summary, we provide biochemical evidence for stressor-induced chaperone-mediated protein mis-assemblies and demonstrate how these alterations are actionable in disease."	0
"32294444"	"In Vitro Generation of Leishmania Hybrids.Protozoan parasites in the genus Leishmania produce a broad spectrum of diseases in their human hosts. The strain and species-specific genes controlling these diverse clinical outcomes have remained poorly tractable using reverse genetics approaches. A cryptic sexual cycle involving a meiotic-like process has been described in Leishmania but is so far confined to parasites growing in the sand fly vector. Here, we describe the reproducible in vitro generation of hybrid clones using axenic culture forms of Leishmania tropica promastigotes. Analysis of SNPs marker inheritance and whole-genome sequencing data indicate that the progeny clones are full genomic hybrids. The demonstration that mating-competent forms arise in culture should facilitate experimental study of the mating biology of Leishmania and the generation of large numbers of recombinant parasites for positional cloning of important genes."	0
"31973890"	"p53 Activates the Long Noncoding RNA Pvt1b to Inhibit Myc and Suppress Tumorigenesis.The tumor suppressor p53 transcriptionally activates target genes to suppress cellular proliferation during stress. p53 has also been implicated in the repression of the proto-oncogene Myc, but the mechanism has remained unclear. Here, we identify Pvt1b, a p53-dependent isoform of the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) Pvt1, expressed 50 kb downstream of Myc, which becomes induced by DNA damage or oncogenic signaling and accumulates near its site of transcription. We show that production of the Pvt1b RNA is necessary and sufficient to suppress Myc transcription in cis without altering the chromatin organization of the locus. Inhibition of Pvt1b increases Myc levels and transcriptional activity and promotes cellular proliferation. Furthermore, Pvt1b loss accelerates tumor growth, but not tumor progression, in an autochthonous mouse model of lung cancer. These findings demonstrate that Pvt1b acts at the intersection of the p53 and Myc transcriptional networks to reinforce the anti-proliferative activities of p53."	1
"32541877"	"The protein kinase Akt acts as a coat adaptor in endocytic recycling.Coat proteins have a central role in vesicular transport by binding to cargoes for their sorting into intracellular pathways. Cargo recognition is mediated by components of the coat complex known as adaptor proteins<sup>1-3</sup>. We previously showed that Arf-GAP with coil-coil, ANK repeat and PH domain-containing protein 1 (ACAP1) functions as an adaptor for a clathrin coat complex that has a function in endocytic recycling<sup>4-6</sup>. Here, we show that the protein kinase Akt acts as a co-adaptor in this complex, and is needed in conjunction with ACAP1 to bind to cargo proteins to promote their recycling. In addition to advancing the understanding of endocytic recycling, we uncover a fundamentally different function in which a kinase acts, as Akt in this case is an effector rather than a regulator in a cellular event."	1
"32386539"	"Life in the (Pluripotent) Fast Lane: Cdk1 Preserves the Epigenome to Maintain Pluripotency.Michowski and colleagues (2020) engineered analog-sensitive Cdk1 knockin mice to identify Cdk1 targets in embryonic stem cells, which led them to discover a novel function for Cdk1 in shaping the epigenetic landscape by direct regulation of epigenetic modulators."	0
"31940492"	"FBXW7 Confers Radiation Survival by Targeting p53 for Degradation.The tumor suppressor p53 plays a critical role in integrating a wide variety of stress responses. Therefore, p53 levels are precisely regulated by multiple ubiquitin ligases. In this study, we report that FBXW7, a substrate recognition component of the SKP1-CUL1-F-box (SCF) E3 ligase, interacts with and targets p53 for polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation after exposure to ionizing radiation or etoposide. Mechanistically, DNA damage activates ATM to phosphorylate p53 on Ser33 and Ser37, which facilitates the FBXW7 binding and subsequent p53 degradation by SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup>. Inactivation of ATM or SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup> by small molecular inhibitors or genetic knockdown/knockout approaches extends the p53 protein half-life upon DNA damage in an MDM2-independent manner. Biologically, FBXW7 inactivation sensitizes cancer cells to radiation or etoposide by stabilizing p53 to induce cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. Taken together, our study elucidates a mechanism by which FBXW7 confers cancer cell survival during radiotherapy or chemotherapy via p53 targeting."	1
"31759821"	"Fork Cleavage-Religation Cycle and Active Transcription Mediate Replication Restart after Fork Stalling at Co-transcriptional R-Loops.Formation of co-transcriptional R-loops underlies replication fork stalling upon head-on transcription-replication encounters. Here, we demonstrate that RAD51-dependent replication fork reversal induced by R-loops is followed by the restart of semiconservative DNA replication mediated by RECQ1 and RECQ5 helicases, MUS81/EME1 endonuclease, RAD52 strand-annealing factor, the DNA ligase IV (LIG4)/XRCC4 complex, and the non-catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase δ, POLD3. RECQ5 disrupts RAD51 filaments assembled on stalled forks after RECQ1-mediated reverse branch migration, preventing a new round of fork reversal and facilitating fork cleavage by MUS81/EME1. MUS81-dependent DNA breaks accumulate in cells lacking RAD52 or LIG4 upon induction of R-loop formation, suggesting that RAD52 acts in concert with LIG4/XRCC4 to catalyze fork religation, thereby mediating replication restart. The resumption of DNA synthesis after R-loop-associated fork stalling also requires active transcription, the restoration of which depends on MUS81, RAD52, LIG4, and the transcription elongation factor ELL. These findings provide mechanistic insights into transcription-replication conflict resolution."	0
"32579924"	"Tonic GABAergic Inhibition Is Essential for Nerve Injury-Induced Afferent Remodeling in the Somatosensory Thalamus and Ectopic Sensations.Peripheral nerve injury induces functional and structural remodeling of neural circuits along the somatosensory pathways, forming the basis for somatotopic reorganization and ectopic sensations, such as referred phantom pain. However, the mechanisms underlying that remodeling remain largely unknown. Whisker sensory nerve injury drives functional remodeling in the somatosensory thalamus: the number of afferent inputs to each thalamic neuron increases from one to many. Here, we report that extrasynaptic γ-aminobutyric acid-type A receptor (GABA<sub>A</sub>R)-mediated tonic inhibition is necessary for that remodeling. Extrasynaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>R currents were potentiated rapidly after nerve injury in advance of remodeling. Pharmacological activation of the thalamic extrasynaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs in intact mice induced similar remodeling. Notably, conditional deletion of extrasynaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs in the thalamus rescued both the injury-induced remodeling and the ectopic mechanical hypersensitivity. Together, our results reveal a molecular basis for injury-induced remodeling of neural circuits and may provide a new pharmacological target for referred phantom sensations after peripheral nerve injury."	0
"32416068"	"A High-Throughput Screen for Transcription Activation Domains Reveals Their Sequence Features and Permits Prediction by Deep Learning.Acidic transcription activation domains (ADs) are encoded by a wide range of seemingly unrelated amino acid sequences, making it difficult to recognize features that promote their dynamic behavior, ""fuzzy"" interactions, and target specificity. We screened a large set of random 30-mer peptides for AD function in yeast and trained a deep neural network (ADpred) on the AD-positive and -negative sequences. ADpred identifies known acidic ADs within transcription factors and accurately predicts the consequences of mutations. Our work reveals that strong acidic ADs contain multiple clusters of hydrophobic residues near acidic side chains, explaining why ADs often have a biased amino acid composition. ADs likely use a binding mechanism similar to avidity where a minimum number of weak dynamic interactions are required between activator and target to generate biologically relevant affinity and in vivo function. This mechanism explains the basis for fuzzy binding observed between acidic ADs and targets."	0
"32533919"	"Stress Can Induce Transcription of Toxin-Antitoxin Systems without Activating Toxin.Toxin-antitoxin (TA) systems are ubiquitous genetic elements in bacterial genomes, but their functions are controversial. Although they are frequently postulated to regulate cell growth following stress, few null phenotypes for TA systems have been reported. Here, we show that TA transcript levels can increase substantially in response to stress, but toxin is not liberated. We find that the growth of an Escherichia coli strain lacking ten TA systems encoding endoribonuclease toxins is not affected following exposure to six stresses that each trigger TA transcription. Additionally, using RNA sequencing, we find no evidence of mRNA cleavage following stress. Stress-induced transcription arises from antitoxin degradation and relief of transcriptional autoregulation. Importantly, although free antitoxin is readily degraded in vivo, antitoxin bound to toxin is protected from proteolysis, preventing release of active toxin. Thus, transcription is not a reliable marker of TA activity, and TA systems do not strongly promote survival following individual stresses."	0
"32075731"	"Small Molecule Inhibition of GSK-3 Specifically Inhibits the Transcription of Inhibitory Co-receptor LAG-3 for Enhanced Anti-tumor Immunity.Immune checkpoint blockade using antibodies against negative co-receptors such as cytolytic T cell antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) has seen much success treating cancer. However, most patients are still not cured, underscoring the need for improved treatments and the possible development of small molecule inhibitors (SMIs) for improved immunotherapy. We previously showed that glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3α/β is a central regulator of PD-1 expression, where GSK-3 inhibition down-regulates PD-1 and enhances CD8<sup>+</sup> cytolytic T cell (CTL) function, reducing viral infections and tumor growth. Here, we demonstrate that GSK-3 also negatively regulates Lymphocyte Activation Gene-3 (LAG-3) expression on CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells. GSK-3 SMIs are more effective than LAG-3 blockade alone in suppressing B16 melanoma growth, while their combination resulted in enhanced tumor clearance. This was linked to increased expression of the transcription factor, Tbet, which bound the LAG-3 promoter, inhibiting its transcription, and to increased granzyme B and interferon-γ1 expression. Overall, we describe a small molecule approach to inhibit LAG-3, resulting in enhanced anti-tumor immunity."	1
"31809743"	"The Integrator Complex Attenuates Promoter-Proximal Transcription at Protein-Coding Genes.The transition of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) from initiation to productive elongation is a central, regulated step in metazoan gene expression. At many genes, Pol II pauses stably in early elongation, remaining engaged with the 25- to 60-nt-long nascent RNA for many minutes while awaiting signals for release into the gene body. However, 15%-20% of genes display highly unstable promoter Pol II, suggesting that paused polymerase might dissociate from template DNA at these promoters and release a short, non-productive mRNA. Here, we report that paused Pol II can be actively destabilized by the Integrator complex. Specifically, we present evidence that Integrator utilizes its RNA endonuclease activity to cleave nascent RNA and drive termination of paused Pol II. These findings uncover a previously unappreciated mechanism of metazoan gene repression, akin to bacterial transcription attenuation, wherein promoter-proximal Pol II is prevented from entering productive elongation through factor-regulated termination."	0
"32698010"	"mTORC1 Signaling Controls TLR2-Mediated T-Cell Activation by Inducing TIRAP Expression.Effector, but not naïve, T cells are activated by toll-like receptor-2 (TLR2) stimulation, leading to cytokine production and proliferation. We found that the differential response is attributable to the lack of expression of the adaptor protein TIRAP in naive T cells. TIRAP expression is induced upon T-cell receptor (TCR) stimulation and sustained by strong interleukin-2 (IL-2) signals. Expression of TIRAP requires TCR- and IL-2-induced mTORC1 activation. TLR2 stimulation induced the activation of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and ERK, leading to much higher production of interferon-γ (IFN-γ) by T helper 1 (Th1) cells cultured in a high concentration of IL-2 than by those cultured in a low concentration of IL-2. In contrast, TLR2 stimulation induces mTORC1 activation through TIRAP, which is essential for TLR2-mediated IFN-γ production. These data demonstrate that the mTORC1 signal confers the response to TLR2 signaling by inducing TIRAP expression and that the TIRAP-mTORC1 axis is critical for TLR2-mediated IFN-γ production by effector T cells."	1
"31857346"	"CDK7 regulates organ size and tumor growth by safeguarding the Hippo pathway effector Yki/Yap/Taz in the nucleus.Hippo signaling controls organ size and tumor progression through a conserved pathway leading to nuclear translocation of the transcriptional effector Yki/Yap/Taz. Most of our understanding of Hippo signaling pertains to its cytoplasmic regulation, but how the pathway is controlled in the nucleus remains poorly understood. Here we uncover an evolutionarily conserved mechanism by which CDK7 promotes Yki/Yap/Taz stabilization in the nucleus to sustain Hippo pathway outputs. We found that a modular E3 ubiquitin ligase complex CRL4<sup>DCAF12</sup> binds and targets Yki/Yap/Taz for ubiquitination and degradation, whereas CDK7 phosphorylates Yki/Yap/Taz at S169/S128/S90 to inhibit CRL4<sup>DCAF12</sup> recruitment, leading to Yki/Yap/Taz stabilization. As a consequence, inactivation of CDK7 reduced organ size and inhibited tumor growth, which could be reversed by restoring Yki/Yap activity. Our study identifies an unanticipated layer of Hippo pathway regulation, defines a novel mechanism by which CDK7 regulates tissue growth, and implies CDK7 as a drug target for Yap/Taz-driven cancer."	1
"32719006"	"Structural and functional studies of <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> legumain beta reveal isoform specific mechanisms of activation and substrate recognition.The vacuolar cysteine protease legumain plays important functions in seed maturation and plant programmed cell death. Because of their dual protease and ligase activity, plant legumains have become of particular biotechnological interest, <i>e.g.</i> for the synthesis of cyclic peptides for drug design or for protein engineering. However, the molecular mechanisms behind their dual protease and ligase activities are still poorly understood, limiting their applications. Here, we present the crystal structure of <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> legumain isoform β (AtLEGβ) in its zymogen state. Combining structural and biochemical experiments, we show for the first time that plant legumains encode distinct, isoform-specific activation mechanisms. Whereas the autocatalytic activation of isoform γ (AtLEGγ) is controlled by the latency-conferring dimer state, the activation of the monomeric AtLEGβ is concentration independent. Additionally, in AtLEGβ the plant-characteristic two-chain intermediate state is stabilized by hydrophobic rather than ionic interactions, as in AtLEGγ, resulting in significantly different pH stability profiles. The crystal structure of AtLEGβ revealed unrestricted nonprime substrate binding pockets, consistent with the broad substrate specificity, as determined by degradomic assays. Further to its protease activity, we show that AtLEGβ exhibits a true peptide ligase activity. Whereas cleavage-dependent transpeptidase activity has been reported for other plant legumains, AtLEGβ is the first example of a plant legumain capable of linking free termini. The discovery of these isoform-specific differences will allow us to identify and rationally design efficient ligases with application in biotechnology and drug development."	0
"32433974"	"Interplay between Liver X Receptor and Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1α Potentiates Interleukin-1β Production in Human Macrophages.Low-grade inflammation is constitutive of atherosclerosis, and anti-inflammatory therapy inhibiting interleukin-1β (IL-1β) reduces the rate of cardiovascular events. While cholesterol accumulation in atheroma plaque and macrophages is a major driver of the inflammatory process, the role of the LXR cholesterol sensors remains to be clarified. Murine and human macrophages were treated with LXR agonists for 48 h before Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation. Unexpectedly, we observe that, among other cytokines, LXR agonists selectively increase IL1B mRNA levels independently of TLR activation. This effect, restricted to human macrophages, is mediated by activation of HIF-1α through LXR. Accordingly, LXR agonists also potentiate other HIF-1α-dependent pathways, such as glycolysis. Treatment of human macrophages with carotid plaque homogenates also leads to induction of IL1B in an LXR-dependent manner. Thus, our work discloses a mechanism by which cholesterol and oxysterols trigger inflammation in atherosclerosis. This suggests perspectives to target IL-1β production in atherosclerotic patients."	1
"30595434"	"Noncanonical Modulation of the eIF2 Pathway Controls an Increase in Local Translation during Neural Wiring.Local translation is rapidly regulated by extrinsic signals during neural wiring, but its control mechanisms remain elusive. Here we show that the extracellular cue Sema3A induces an initial burst in local translation that precisely controls phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2α via the unfolded protein response (UPR) kinase PERK. Strikingly, in contrast to canonical UPR signaling, Sema3A-induced eIF2α phosphorylation bypasses global translational repression and underlies an increase in local translation through differential activity of eIF2B mediated by protein phosphatase 1. Ultrasensitive proteomics analysis of axons reveals 75 proteins translationally controlled via the Sema3A-p-eIF2α pathway. These include proteostasis- and actin cytoskeleton-related proteins but not canonical stress markers. Finally, we show that PERK signaling is needed for directional axon migration and visual pathway development in vivo. Thus, our findings reveal a noncanonical eIF2 signaling pathway that controls selective changes in axon translation and is required for neural wiring."	1
"32402252"	"KAP1 Is a Chromatin Reader that Couples Steps of RNA Polymerase II Transcription to Sustain Oncogenic Programs.Precise control of the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) cycle, including pausing and pause release, maintains transcriptional homeostasis and organismal functions. Despite previous work to understand individual transcription steps, we reveal a mechanism that integrates RNA Pol II cycle transitions. Surprisingly, KAP1/TRIM28 uses a previously uncharacterized chromatin reader cassette to bind hypo-acetylated histone 4 tails at promoters, guaranteeing continuous progression of RNA Pol II entry to and exit from the pause state. Upon chromatin docking, KAP1 first associates with RNA Pol II and then recruits a pathway-specific transcription factor (SMAD2) in response to cognate ligands, enabling gene-selective CDK9-dependent pause release. This coupling mechanism is exploited by tumor cells to aberrantly sustain transcriptional programs commonly dysregulated in cancer patients. The discovery of a factor integrating transcription steps expands the functional repertoire by which chromatin readers operate and provides mechanistic understanding of transcription regulation, offering alternative therapeutic opportunities to target transcriptional dysregulation."	1
"32763910"	"miR760 regulates ATXN1 levels via interaction with its 5' untranslated region.Identifying modifiers of dosage-sensitive genes involved in neurodegenerative disorders is imperative to discover novel genetic risk factors and potential therapeutic entry points. In this study, we focus on Ataxin-1 (<i>ATXN1</i>), a dosage-sensitive gene involved in the neurodegenerative disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). While the precise maintenance of ATXN1 levels is essential to prevent disease, the mechanisms that regulate <i>ATXN1</i> expression remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that <i>ATXN1</i>'s unusually long 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) negatively regulates its expression via posttranscriptional mechanisms. Based on recent reports that microRNAs (miRNAs) can interact with both 3' and 5' UTRs to regulate their target genes, we identify miR760 as a negative regulator that binds to a conserved site in <i>ATXN1</i>'s 5' UTR to induce RNA degradation and translational inhibition. We found that delivery of Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-expressing miR760 in the cerebellum reduces ATXN1 levels in vivo and mitigates motor coordination deficits in a mouse model of SCA1. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of ATXN1 levels, present additional evidence for miRNA-mediated gene regulation via 5' UTR binding, and raise the possibility that noncoding mutations in the <i>ATXN1</i> locus may act as risk factors for yet to be discovered progressive ataxias."	1
"32645369"	"RNF126-Mediated Reubiquitination Is Required for Proteasomal Degradation of p97-Extracted Membrane Proteins.Valosin-containing protein (VCP)/p97 is an AAA-ATPase that extracts polyubiquitinated substrates from multimeric macromolecular complexes and biological membranes for proteasomal degradation. During p97-mediated extraction, the substrate is largely deubiquitinated as it is threaded through the p97 central pore. How p97-extracted substrates are targeted to the proteasome with few or no ubiquitins is unknown. Here, we report that p97-extracted membrane proteins undergo a second round of ubiquitination catalyzed by the cytosolic ubiquitin ligase RNF126. RNF126 interacts with transmembrane-domain-specific chaperone BAG6, which captures p97-liberated substrates. RNF126 depletion in cells diminishes the ubiquitination of extracted membrane proteins, slows down their turnover, and dramatically stabilizes otherwise transient intermediates in the cytosol. We reconstitute the reubiquitination of a p97-extracted, misfolded multispanning membrane protein with purified factors. Our results demonstrate that p97-extracted substrates need to rapidly engage ubiquitin ligase-chaperone pairs that rebuild the ubiquitin signal for proteasome targeting to prevent harmful accumulation of unfolded intermediates."	1
"32187559"	"Identification of ALPPL2 as a Naive Pluripotent State-Specific Surface Protein Essential for Human Naive Pluripotency Regulation.Human naive pluripotent stem cells established from the epiblasts of preimplantation blastocysts provide a useful model for mechanistic studies of pluripotency regulation and lineage differentiation. Important advances have been made to optimize culture conditions and define molecular criteria for naive pluripotency. However, the identity of naive-specific surface markers and the underlying molecular mechanism of naive pluripotency regulation remain poorly understood. Here, we identify alkaline phosphatase placental-like 2 (ALPPL2) as a prominent naive-specific surface marker by systematic proteomic and transcriptomic analyses. Furthermore, we demonstrate that ALPPL2 is essential for both the establishment and maintenance of naive pluripotency. Moreover, we show that ALPPL2 can interact with the RNA-binding protein IGF2BP1 to stabilize the mRNA levels of the naive pluripotency transcription factors TFCP2L1 and STAT3 to regulate naive pluripotency. Overall, our study identifies a functional surface marker for human naive pluripotency, providing a powerful tool for human-naive-pluripotency-related mechanistic studies."	1
"31708417"	"ATR Protects the Genome against R Loops through a MUS81-Triggered Feedback Loop.R loops arising during transcription induce genomic instability, but how cells respond to the R loop-associated genomic stress is still poorly understood. Here, we show that cells harboring high levels of R loops rely on the ATR kinase for survival. In response to aberrant R loop accumulation, the ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR)-Chk1 pathway is activated by R loop-induced reversed replication forks. In contrast to the activation of ATR by replication inhibitors, R loop-induced ATR activation requires the MUS81 endonuclease. ATR protects the genome from R loops by suppressing transcription-replication collisions, promoting replication fork recovery, and enforcing a G2/M cell-cycle arrest. Furthermore, ATR prevents excessive cleavage of reversed forks by MUS81, revealing a MUS81-triggered and ATR-mediated feedback loop that fine-tunes MUS81 activity at replication forks. These results suggest that ATR is a key sensor and suppressor of R loop-induced genomic instability, uncovering a signaling circuitry that safeguards the genome against R loops."	1
"32769176"	"Correction: The E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1 attenuates cell senescence by promoting the ubiquitination and degradation of the core circadian regulator BMAL1."	0
"32217664"	"Telomere length heterogeneity in ALT cells is maintained by PML-dependent localization of the BTR complex to telomeres.Telomeres consist of TTAGGG repeats bound by protein complexes that serve to protect the natural end of linear chromosomes. Most cells maintain telomere repeat lengths by using the enzyme telomerase, although there are some cancer cells that use a telomerase-independent mechanism of telomere extension, termed alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). Cells that use ALT are characterized, in part, by the presence of specialized PML nuclear bodies called ALT-associated PML bodies (APBs). APBs localize to and cluster telomeric ends together with telomeric and DNA damage factors, which led to the proposal that these bodies act as a platform on which ALT can occur. However, the necessity of APBs and their function in the ALT pathway has remained unclear. Here, we used CRISPR/Cas9 to delete PML and APB components from ALT-positive cells to cleanly define the function of APBs in ALT. We found that PML is required for the ALT mechanism, and that this necessity stems from APBs' role in localizing the BLM-TOP3A-RMI (BTR) complex to ALT telomere ends. Strikingly, recruitment of the BTR complex to telomeres in a PML-independent manner bypasses the need for PML in the ALT pathway, suggesting that BTR localization to telomeres is sufficient to sustain ALT activity."	0
"32675286"	"Inhibition of the ATR kinase enhances 5-FU sensitivity independently of nonhomologous end-joining and homologous recombination repair pathways.The anticancer agent 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is cytotoxic and often used to treat various cancers. 5-FU is thought to inhibit the enzyme thymidylate synthase, which plays a role in nucleotide synthesis and has been found to induce single- and double-strand DNA breaks. ATR Ser/Thr kinase (ATR) is a principal kinase in the DNA damage response and is activated in response to UV- and chemotherapeutic drug-induced DNA replication stress, but its role in cellular responses to 5-FU is unclear. In this study, we examined the effect of ATR inhibition on 5-FU sensitivity of mammalian cells. Using immunoblotting, we found that 5-FU treatment dose-dependently induced the phosphorylation of ATR at the autophosphorylation site Thr-1989 and thereby activated its kinase. Administration of 5-FU with a specific ATR inhibitor remarkably decreased cell survival, compared with 5-FU treatment combined with other major DNA repair kinase inhibitors. Of note, the ATR inhibition enhanced induction of DNA double-strand breaks and apoptosis in 5-FU-treated cells. Using gene expression analysis, we found that 5-FU induced the activation of the intra-S cell-cycle checkpoint. Cells lacking <i>BRCA2</i> were sensitive to 5-FU in the presence of ATR inhibitor. Moreover, ATR inhibition enhanced the efficacy of the 5-FU treatment, independently of the nonhomologous end-joining and homologous recombination repair pathways. These findings suggest that ATR could be a potential therapeutic target in 5-FU-based chemotherapy."	0
"32101747"	"Class IIa Histone Deacetylases Drive Toll-like Receptor-Inducible Glycolysis and Macrophage Inflammatory Responses via Pyruvate Kinase M2.Histone deacetylases (HDACs) drive innate immune cell-mediated inflammation. Here we identify class IIa HDACs as key molecular links between Toll-like receptor (TLR)-inducible aerobic glycolysis and macrophage inflammatory responses. A proteomic screen identified the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M isoform 2 (Pkm2) as a partner of proinflammatory Hdac7 in murine macrophages. Myeloid-specific Hdac7 overexpression in transgenic mice amplifies lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-inducible lactate and promotes a glycolysis-associated inflammatory signature. Conversely, pharmacological or genetic targeting of Hdac7 and other class IIa HDACs attenuates LPS-inducible glycolysis and accompanying inflammatory responses in macrophages. We show that an Hdac7-Pkm2 complex acts as an immunometabolism signaling hub, whereby Pkm2 deacetylation at lysine 433 licenses its proinflammatory functions. Disrupting this complex suppresses inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Class IIa HDACs are thus pivotal intermediates connecting TLR-inducible glycolysis to inflammation via Pkm2."	1
"32268090"	"TBK1 and IKKε Act Redundantly to Mediate STING-Induced NF-κB Responses in Myeloid Cells.Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) is a critical component of host innate immune defense but can contribute to chronic autoimmune or autoinflammatory disease. Once activated, the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-adenosine monophosphate (AMP) (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS)-STING pathway induces both type I interferon (IFN) expression and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-mediated cytokine production. Currently, these two signaling arms are thought to be mediated by a single upstream kinase, TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). Here, using genetic and pharmacological approaches, we show that TBK1 alone is dispensable for STING-induced NF-κB responses in human and mouse immune cells, as well as in vivo. We further demonstrate that TBK1 acts redundantly with IκB kinase ε (IKKε) to drive NF-κB upon STING activation. Interestingly, we show that activation of IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) is highly dependent on TBK1 kinase activity, whereas NF-κB is significantly less sensitive to TBK1/IKKε kinase inhibition. Our work redefines signaling events downstream of cGAS-STING. Our findings further suggest that cGAS-STING will need to be targeted directly to effectively ameliorate the inflammation underpinning disorders associated with STING hyperactivity."	1
"32675284"	"Caspr2 interacts with type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the developing cerebellum and regulates Purkinje cell morphology.Contactin-associated protein-like 2 (Caspr2) is a neurexin-like protein that has been associated with numerous neurological conditions. However, the specific functional roles that Caspr2 plays in the central nervous system and their underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we report on a functional role for Caspr2 in the developing cerebellum. Using a combination of confocal microscopy, biochemical analyses, and behavioral testing, we show that loss of Caspr2 in the <i>Cntnap2</i><sup>-/-</sup> knockout mouse results in impaired Purkinje cell dendritic development, altered intracellular signaling, and motor coordination deficits. We also find that Caspr2 is highly enriched at synaptic specializations in the cerebellum. Using a proteomics approach, we identify type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP<sub>3</sub>R1) as a specific synaptic interaction partner of the Caspr2 extracellular domain in the molecular layer of the developing cerebellum. The interaction of the Caspr2 extracellular domain with IP<sub>3</sub>R1 inhibits IP<sub>3</sub>R1-mediated changes in cellular morphology. Together, our work defines a mechanism by which Caspr2 controls the development and function of the cerebellum and advances our understanding of how Caspr2 dysfunction might lead to specific brain disorders."	1
"32460009"	"Lactobacilli Have a Niche in the Human Nose.Although an increasing number of beneficial microbiome members are characterized for the human gut and vagina, beneficial microbes are underexplored for the human upper respiratory tract (URT). In this study, we demonstrate that taxa from the beneficial Lactobacillus genus complex are more prevalent in the healthy URT than in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS). Several URT-specific isolates are cultured, characterized, and further explored for their genetic and functional properties related to adaptation to the URT. Catalase genes are found in the identified lactobacilli, which is a unique feature within this mostly facultative anaerobic genus. Moreover, one of our isolated strains, Lactobacillus casei AMBR2, contains fimbriae that enable strong adherence to URT epithelium, inhibit the growth and virulence of several URT pathogens, and successfully colonize nasal epithelium of healthy volunteers. This study thus demonstrates that specific lactobacilli are adapted to the URT and could have a beneficial keystone function in this habitat."	0
"32375051"	"Srebf1 Controls Midbrain Dopaminergic Neurogenesis.Liver X receptors (LXRs) and their ligands are potent regulators of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurogenesis and differentiation. However, the molecular mechanisms by which LXRs control these functions remain to be elucidated. Here, we perform a combined transcriptome and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis of midbrain cells after LXR activation, followed by bioinformatic analysis to elucidate the transcriptional networks controlling mDA neurogenesis. Our results identify the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1) as part of a cluster of proneural transcription factors in radial glia and as a regulator of transcription factors controlling mDA neurogenesis, such as Foxa2. Moreover, loss- and gain-of-function experiments in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that Srebf1 is both required and sufficient for mDA neurogenesis. Our data, thus, identify Srebf1 as a central player in mDA neurogenesis."	1
"32460032"	"CXCR4 Signaling Has a CXCL12-Independent Essential Role in Murine MLL-AF9-Driven Acute Myeloid Leukemia.Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is defined by an accumulation of immature myeloid blasts in the bone marrow. To identify key dependencies of AML stem cells in vivo, here we use a CRISPR-Cas9 screen targeting cell surface genes in a syngeneic MLL-AF9 AML mouse model and show that CXCR4 is a top cell surface regulator of AML cell growth and survival. Deletion of Cxcr4 in AML cells eradicates leukemia cells in vivo without impairing their homing to the bone marrow. In contrast, the CXCR4 ligand CXCL12 is dispensable for leukemia development in recipient mice. Moreover, expression of mutated Cxcr4 variants reveals that CXCR4 signaling is essential for leukemia cells. Notably, loss of CXCR4 signaling in leukemia cells leads to oxidative stress and differentiation in vivo. Taken together, our results identify CXCR4 signaling as essential for AML stem cells by protecting them from differentiation independent of CXCL12 stimulation."	0
"31626748"	"Filament-like Assemblies of Intracellular Nucleic Acid Sensors: Commonalities and Differences.Self versus non-self discrimination by innate immune sensors is critical for mounting effective immune responses against pathogens while avoiding harmful auto-inflammatory reactions against the host. Foreign DNA and RNA sensors must discriminate between self versus non-self nucleic acids, despite their shared building blocks and similar physicochemical properties. Recent structural and biochemical studies suggest that multiple steps of filament-like assembly are required for the functions of several nucleic acid sensors. Here, we discuss ligand discrimination and oligomerization of RIG-I-like receptors, AIM2-like receptors, and cGAS. We discuss how filament-like assembly allows for robust and accurate discrimination of self versus non-self nucleic acids and how these assemblies enable sensing of multiple distinct features in foreign nucleic acids, including structure, length, and modifications. We also discuss how individual receptors differ in their assembly and disassembly mechanisms and how these differences contribute to the diversity in nucleic acid specificity and pathogen detection strategies."	0
"32679077"	"Acetylation-Dependent Deubiquitinase OTUD3 Controls MAVS Activation in Innate Antiviral Immunity.Accurate regulation of innate immunity is necessary for the host to efficiently respond to invading pathogens and avoid excessive harmful immune pathology. Here we identified OTUD3 as an acetylation-dependent deubiquitinase that restricts innate antiviral immune signaling. OTUD3 deficiency in mice results in enhanced innate immunity, a diminished viral load, and morbidity. OTUD3 directly hydrolyzes lysine 63 (Lys63)-linked polyubiquitination of MAVS and thus shuts off innate antiviral immune response. Notably, the catalytic activity of OTUD3 relies on acetylation of its Lys129 residue. In response to virus infection, the acetylated Lys129 is removed by SIRT1, which promptly inactivates OTUD3 and thus allows timely induction of innate antiviral immunity. Importantly, acetyl-OTUD3 levels are inversely correlated with IFN-β expression in influenza patients. These findings establish OTUD3 as a repressor of MAVS and uncover a previously unknown regulatory mechanism by which the catalytic activity of OTUD3 is tightly controlled to ensure timely activation of antiviral defense."	1
"32846130"	"BIRC2 Expression Impairs Anti-Cancer Immunity and Immunotherapy Efficacy.Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has led to therapeutic responses in some cancer patients for whom no effective treatment previously existed. ICB acts on T lymphocytes and other immune cells that are inactivated due to checkpoint signals that inhibit their infiltration and function within tumors. But for more than 80% of patients, immunotherapy has not been effective. Here, we demonstrate a cancer-cell-intrinsic mechanism of immune evasion and resistance to ICB mediated by baculoviral IAP repeat-containing 2 (BIRC2). Knockdown of BIRC2 expression in mouse melanoma or breast cancer cells increases expression of the chemokine CXCL9 and impairs tumor growth by increasing the number of intratumoral activated CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells. Administration of anti-CXCL9 neutralizing antibody inhibits the recruitment of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells to BIRC2-deficient tumors. Most importantly, BIRC2 deficiency dramatically increases the sensitivity of mouse melanoma and breast tumors to anti-CTLA4 and/or anti-PD1 ICB."	1
"31398325"	"Landscape of Intercellular Crosstalk in Healthy and NASH Liver Revealed by Single-Cell Secretome Gene Analysis.Cell-cell communication via ligand-receptor signaling is a fundamental feature of complex organs. Despite this, the global landscape of intercellular signaling in mammalian liver has not been elucidated. Here we perform single-cell RNA sequencing on non-parenchymal cells isolated from healthy and NASH mouse livers. Secretome gene analysis revealed a highly connected network of intrahepatic signaling and disruption of vascular signaling in NASH. We uncovered the emergence of NASH-associated macrophages (NAMs), which are marked by high expression of triggering receptors expressed on myeloid cells 2 (Trem2), as a feature of mouse and human NASH that is linked to disease severity and highly responsive to pharmacological and dietary interventions. Finally, hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) serve as a hub of intrahepatic signaling via HSC-derived stellakines and their responsiveness to vasoactive hormones. These results provide unprecedented insights into the landscape of intercellular crosstalk and reprogramming of liver cells in health and disease."	0
"30639240"	"Mechanistic Insights into the cis- and trans-Acting DNase Activities of Cas12a.CRISPR-Cas12a (Cpf1) is an RNA-guided DNA-cutting nuclease that has been repurposed for genome editing. Upon target DNA binding, Cas12a cleaves both the target DNA in cis and non-target single-stranded DNAs (ssDNAs) in trans. To elucidate the molecular basis for both DNase cleavage modes, we performed structural and biochemical studies on Francisella novicida Cas12a. We show that guide RNA-target strand DNA hybridization conformationally activates Cas12a, triggering its trans-acting, non-specific, single-stranded DNase activity. In turn, cis cleavage of double-stranded DNA targets is a result of protospacer adjacent motif (PAM)-dependent DNA duplex unwinding, electrostatic stabilization of the displaced non-target DNA strand, and ordered sequential cleavage of the non-target and target DNA strands. Cas12a releases the PAM-distal DNA cleavage product and remains bound to the PAM-proximal DNA cleavage product in a catalytically competent, trans-active state. Together, these results provide a revised model for the molecular mechanisms of both the cis- and the trans-acting DNase activities of Cas12a enzymes, enabling their further exploitation as genome editing tools."	0
"31607545"	"Programmable Inhibition and Detection of RNA Viruses Using Cas13.The CRISPR effector Cas13 could be an effective antiviral for single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) viruses because it programmably cleaves RNAs complementary to its CRISPR RNA (crRNA). Here, we computationally identify thousands of potential Cas13 crRNA target sites in hundreds of ssRNA viral species that can potentially infect humans. We experimentally demonstrate Cas13's potent activity against three distinct ssRNA viruses: lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV); influenza A virus (IAV); and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Combining this antiviral activity with Cas13-based diagnostics, we develop Cas13-assisted restriction of viral expression and readout (CARVER), an end-to-end platform that uses Cas13 to detect and destroy viral RNA. We further screen hundreds of crRNAs along the LCMV genome to evaluate how conservation and target RNA nucleotide content influence Cas13's antiviral activity. Our results demonstrate that Cas13 can be harnessed to target a wide range of ssRNA viruses and CARVER's potential broad utility for rapid diagnostic and antiviral drug development."	0
"31054974"	"Acetylation of PHF5A Modulates Stress Responses and Colorectal Carcinogenesis through Alternative Splicing-Mediated Upregulation of KDM3A.Alternative pre-mRNA-splicing-induced post-transcriptional gene expression regulation is one of the pathways for tumors maintaining proliferation rates accompanying the malignant phenotype under stress. Here, we uncover a list of hyperacetylated proteins in the context of acutely reduced Acetyl-CoA levels under nutrient starvation. PHF5A, a component of U2 snRNPs, can be acetylated at lysine 29 in response to multiple cellular stresses, which is dependent on p300. PHF5A acetylation strengthens the interaction among U2 snRNPs and affects global pre-mRNA splicing pattern and extensive gene expression. PHF5A hyperacetylation-induced alternative splicing stabilizes KDM3A mRNA and promotes its protein expression. Pathologically, PHF5A K29 hyperacetylation and KDM3A upregulation axis are correlated with poor prognosis of colon cancer. Our findings uncover a mechanism of an anti-stress pathway through which acetylation on PHF5A promotes the cancer cells' capacity for stress resistance and consequently contributes to colon carcinogenesis."	1
"32375039"	"Loss of m<sup>1</sup>acp<sup>3</sup>Ψ Ribosomal RNA Modification Is a Major Feature of Cancer.The ribosome is an RNA-protein complex that is essential for translation in all domains of life. The structural and catalytic core of the ribosome is its ribosomal RNA (rRNA). While mutations in ribosomal protein (RP) genes are known drivers of oncogenesis, oncogenic rRNA variants have remained elusive. We identify a cancer-specific single-nucleotide variation in 18S rRNA at nucleotide 1248.U in up to 45.9% of patients with colorectal carcinoma (CRC) and present across >22 cancer types. This is the site of a unique hyper-modified base, 1-methyl-3-α-amino-α-carboxyl-propyl pseudouridine (m<sup>1</sup>acp<sup>3</sup>Ψ), a >1-billion-years-conserved RNA modification at the peptidyl decoding site of the ribosome. A subset of CRC tumors we call hypo-m<sup>1</sup>acp<sup>3</sup>Ψ shows sub-stoichiometric m<sup>1</sup>acp<sup>3</sup>Ψ modification, unlike normal control tissues. An m<sup>1</sup>acp<sup>3</sup>Ψ knockout model and hypo-m<sup>1</sup>acp<sup>3</sup>Ψ patient tumors share a translational signature characterized by highly abundant ribosomal proteins. Thus, m<sup>1</sup>acp<sup>3</sup>Ψ-deficient rRNA forms an uncharacterized class of ""onco-ribosome"" which may serve as a chemotherapeutic target for treating cancer patients."	0
"30901564"	"MST1 Negatively Regulates TNFα-Induced NF-κB Signaling through Modulating LUBAC Activity.The nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathway plays a central role in inflammatory and immune responses, with aberrant activation of NF-κB signaling being implicated in various human disorders. Here, we show that mammalian ste20-like kinase 1 (MST1) is a previously unrecognized component of the tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) receptor 1 signaling complex (TNF-RSC) and attenuates TNFα-induced NF-κB signaling. Genetic ablation of MST1 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and bone marrow-derived macrophages potentiated the TNFα-induced increase in IκB kinase (IKK) activity, as well as the expression of NF-κB target genes. TNFα induced the recruitment of MST1 to TNF-RSC and its interaction with HOIP, the catalytic component of the E3 ligase linear ubiquitin assembly complex (LUBAC). Furthermore, MST1 activated in response to TNFα stimulation mediates the phosphorylation of HOIP and thereby inhibited LUBAC-dependent linear ubiquitination of NEMO/IKKγ. Together, our findings suggest that MST1 negatively regulates TNFα-induced NF-κB signaling by targeting LUBAC."	1
"32937135"	"The GSK-3β-FBXL21 Axis Contributes to Circadian TCAP Degradation and Skeletal Muscle Function.FBXL21 is a clock-controlled E3 ligase modulating circadian periodicity via subcellular-specific CRYPTOCHROME degradation. How FBXL21 regulates tissue-specific circadian physiology and what mechanism operates upstream is poorly understood. Here we report the sarcomere component TCAP as a cytoplasmic substrate of FBXL21. FBXL21 interacts with TCAP in a circadian manner antiphasic to TCAP accumulation in skeletal muscle, and circadian TCAP oscillation is disrupted in Psttm mice with an Fbxl21 hypomorph mutation. GSK-3β phosphorylates FBXL21 and TCAP to activate FBXL21-mediated, phosphodegron-dependent TCAP degradation. GSK-3β inhibition or knockdown diminishes FBXL21-Cul1 complex formation and delays FBXL21-mediated TCAP degradation. Finally, Psttm mice show significant skeletal muscle defects, including impaired fiber size, exercise tolerance, grip strength, and response to glucocorticoid-induced atrophy, in conjunction with cardiac dysfunction. These data highlight a circadian regulatory pathway where a GSK-3β-FBXL21 functional axis controls TCAP degradation via SCF complex formation and regulates skeletal muscle function."	1
"32571876"	"5'-UTR recruitment of the translation initiation factor eIF4GI or DAP5 drives cap-independent translation of a subset of human mRNAs.During unfavorable conditions (<i>e.g.</i> tumor hypoxia or viral infection), canonical, cap-dependent mRNA translation is suppressed in human cells. Nonetheless, a subset of physiologically important mRNAs (<i>e.g.</i> hypoxia-inducible factor 1α [HIF-1α], fibroblast growth factor 9 [FGF-9], and p53) is still translated by an unknown, cap-independent mechanism. Additionally, expression levels of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4GI (eIF4GI) and of its homolog, death-associated protein 5 (DAP5), are elevated. By examining the 5' UTRs of HIF-1α, FGF-9, and p53 mRNAs and using fluorescence anisotropy binding studies, luciferase reporter-based <i>in vitro</i> translation assays, and mutational analyses, we demonstrate here that eIF4GI and DAP5 specifically bind to the 5' UTRs of these cap-independently translated mRNAs. Surprisingly, we found that the eIF4E-binding domain of eIF4GI increases not only the binding affinity but also the selectivity among these mRNAs. We further demonstrate that the affinities of eIF4GI and DAP5 binding to these 5' UTRs correlate with the efficiency with which these factors drive cap-independent translation of these mRNAs. Integrating the results of our binding and translation assays, we conclude that eIF4GI or DAP5 is critical for recruitment of a specific subset of mRNAs to the ribosome, providing mechanistic insight into their cap-independent translation."	0
"32640229"	"Distinct Mechanisms of Over-Representation of Landmarks and Rewards in the Hippocampus.In the hippocampus, locations associated with salient features are represented by a disproportionately large number of neurons, but the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying this over-representation remain elusive. Using longitudinal calcium imaging in mice learning to navigate in virtual reality, we find that the over-representation of reward and landmark locations are mediated by persistent and separable subsets of neurons, with distinct time courses of emergence and differing underlying molecular mechanisms. Strikingly, we find that in mice lacking Shank2, an autism spectrum disorder (ASD)-linked gene encoding an excitatory postsynaptic scaffold protein, the learning-induced over-representation of landmarks was absent whereas the over-representation of rewards was substantially increased, as was goal-directed behavior. These findings demonstrate that multiple hippocampal coding processes for unique types of salient features are distinguished by a Shank2-dependent mechanism and suggest that abnormally distorted hippocampal salience mapping may underlie cognitive and behavioral abnormalities in a subset of ASDs."	0
"31607544"	"Processing of DNA Polymerase-Blocking Lesions during Genome Replication Is Spatially and Temporally Segregated from Replication Forks.Tracing DNA repair factors by fluorescence microscopy provides valuable information about how DNA damage processing is orchestrated within cells. Most repair pathways involve single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), making replication protein A (RPA) a hallmark of DNA damage and replication stress. RPA foci emerging during S phase in response to tolerable loads of polymerase-blocking lesions are generally thought to indicate stalled replication intermediates. We now report that in budding yeast they predominantly form far away from sites of ongoing replication, and they do not overlap with any of the repair centers associated with collapsed replication forks or double-strand breaks. Instead, they represent sites of postreplicative DNA damage bypass involving translesion synthesis and homologous recombination. We propose that most RPA and recombination foci induced by polymerase-blocking lesions in the replication template are clusters of repair tracts arising from replication centers by polymerase re-priming and subsequent expansion of daughter-strand gaps over the course of S phase."	0
"30849395"	"Mitotic CDK Promotes Replisome Disassembly, Fork Breakage, and Complex DNA Rearrangements.DNA replication errors generate complex chromosomal rearrangements and thereby contribute to tumorigenesis and other human diseases. One mechanism that triggers these errors is mitotic entry before the completion of DNA replication. To address how mitosis might affect DNA replication, we used Xenopus egg extracts. When mitotic CDK (Cyclin B1-CDK1) is used to drive interphase egg extracts into a mitotic state, the replicative CMG (CDC45/MCM2-7/GINS) helicase undergoes ubiquitylation on its MCM7 subunit, dependent on the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRAIP. Whether replisomes have stalled or undergone termination, CMG ubiquitylation is followed by its extraction from chromatin by the CDC48/p97 ATPase. TRAIP-dependent CMG unloading during mitosis is also seen in C. elegans early embryos. At stalled forks, CMG removal results in fork breakage and end joining events involving deletions and templated insertions. Our results identify a mitotic pathway of global replisome disassembly that can trigger replication fork collapse and DNA rearrangements."	0
"32049010"	"Secreted Pyruvate Kinase M2 Promotes Lung Cancer Metastasis through Activating the Integrin Beta1/FAK Signaling Pathway.Cancer cell-derived secretomes have been documented to play critical roles in cancer progression. Intriguingly, alternative extracellular roles of intracellular proteins are involved in various steps of tumor progression, which can offer strategies to fight cancer. Herein, we identify lung cancer progression-associated secretome signatures using mass spectrometry analysis. Among them, PKM2 is verified to be highly expressed and secreted in lung cancer cells and clinical samples. Functional analyses demonstrates that secreted PKM2 facilitates tumor metastasis. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analysis and functional validation identify integrin β1 as a receptor of secreted PKM2. Mechanistically, secreted PKM2 directly bound to integrin β1 and subsequently activated the FAK/SRC/ERK axis to promote tumor metastasis. Collectively, our findings suggest that PKM2 is a potential serum biomarker for diagnosing lung cancer and that targeting the secreted PKM2-integrin β1 axis can inhibit lung cancer development, which provides evidence of a potential therapeutic strategy in lung cancer."	1
"32905773"	"Malic Enzyme Couples Mitochondria with Aerobic Glycolysis in Osteoblasts.The metabolic program of osteoblasts, the chief bone-making cells, remains incompletely understood. Here in murine calvarial cells, we establish that osteoblast differentiation under aerobic conditions is coupled with a marked increase in glucose consumption and lactate production but reduced oxygen consumption. As a result, aerobic glycolysis accounts for approximately 80% of the ATP production in mature osteoblasts. In vivo tracing with <sup>13</sup>C-labeled glucose in the mouse shows that glucose in bone is readily metabolized to lactate but not organic acids in the TCA cycle. Glucose tracing in osteoblast cultures reveals that pyruvate is carboxylated to form malate integral to the malate-aspartate shuttle. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) identifies Me2, encoding the mitochondrial NAD-dependent isoform of malic enzyme, as being specifically upregulated during osteoblast differentiation. Knockdown of Me2 markedly reduces the glycolytic flux and impairs osteoblast proliferation and differentiation. Thus, the mitochondrial malic enzyme functionally couples the mitochondria with aerobic glycolysis in osteoblasts."	0
"32675325"	"Neural production of kynurenic acid in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> requires the AAT-1 transporter.Kynurenic acid (KynA) levels link peripheral metabolic status to neural functions including learning and memory. Since neural KynA levels dampen learning capacity, KynA reduction has been proposed as a therapeutic strategy for conditions of cognitive deficit such as neurodegeneration. While KynA is generated locally within the nervous system, its precursor, kynurenine (Kyn), is largely derived from peripheral resources. The mechanisms that import Kyn into the nervous system are poorly understood. Here, we provide genetic, anatomical, biochemical, and behavioral evidence showing that in <i>C. elegans</i> an ortholog of the human LAT1 transporter, AAT-1, imports Kyn into sites of KynA production."	1
"32697992"	"Pseudo-RNA-Binding Domains Mediate RNA Structure Specificity in Upstream of N-Ras.RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) commonly feature multiple RNA-binding domains (RBDs), which provide these proteins with a modular architecture. Accumulating evidence supports that RBP architectural modularity and adaptability define the specificity of their interactions with RNA. However, how multiple RBDs recognize their cognate single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) sequences in concert remains poorly understood. Here, we use Upstream of N-Ras (Unr) as a model system to address this question. Although reported to contain five ssRNA-binding cold-shock domains (CSDs), we demonstrate that Unr includes an additional four CSDs that do not bind RNA (pseudo-RBDs) but are involved in mediating RNA tertiary structure specificity by reducing the conformational heterogeneity of Unr. Disrupting the interactions between canonical and non-canonical CSDs impacts RNA binding, Unr-mediated translation regulation, and the Unr-dependent RNA interactome. Taken together, our studies reveal a new paradigm in protein-RNA recognition, where interactions between RBDs and pseudo-RBDs select RNA tertiary structures, influence RNP assembly, and define target specificity."	0
"32610138"	"Structure of Human ATG9A, the Only Transmembrane Protein of the Core Autophagy Machinery.Autophagy is a catabolic process involving capture of cytoplasmic materials into double-membraned autophagosomes that subsequently fuse with lysosomes for degradation of the materials by lysosomal hydrolases. One of the least understood components of the autophagy machinery is the transmembrane protein ATG9. Here, we report a cryoelectron microscopy structure of the human ATG9A isoform at 2.9-Å resolution. The structure reveals a fold with a homotrimeric domain-swapped architecture, multiple membrane spans, and a network of branched cavities, consistent with ATG9A being a membrane transporter. Mutational analyses support a role for the cavities in the function of ATG9A. In addition, structure-guided molecular simulations predict that ATG9A causes membrane bending, explaining the localization of this protein to small vesicles and highly curved edges of growing autophagosomes."	0
"32647008"	"Motoneuron expression profiling identifies an association between an axonal splice variant of HDGF-related protein 3 and peripheral myelination.Disorders that disrupt myelin formation during development or in adulthood, such as multiple sclerosis and peripheral neuropathies, lead to severe pathologies, illustrating myelin's crucial role in normal neural functioning. However, although our understanding of glial biology is increasing, the signals that emanate from axons and regulate myelination remain largely unknown. To identify the core components of the myelination process, here we adopted a microarray analysis approach combined with laser-capture microdissection of spinal motoneurons during the myelinogenic phase of development. We identified neuronal genes whose expression was enriched during myelination and further investigated hepatoma-derived growth factor-related protein 3 (HRP3 or HDGFRP3). HRP3 was strongly expressed in the white matter fiber tracts of the peripheral (PNS) and central (CNS) nervous systems during myelination and remyelination in a cuprizone-induced demyelination model. The dynamic localization of HPR3 between axons and nuclei during myelination was consistent with its axonal localization during neuritogenesis. To study this phenomenon, we identified two splice variants encoded by the <i>HRP3</i> gene: the canonical isoform HRP3-I and a newly recognized isoform, HRP3-II. HRP3-I remained solely in the nucleus, whereas HRP3-II displayed distinct axonal localization both before and during myelination. Interestingly, HRP3-II remained in the nuclei of unmyelinated neurons and glial cells, suggesting the existence of a molecular machinery that transfers it to and retains it in the axons of neurons fated for myelination. Overexpression of HRP3-II, but not of HRP3-I, increased Schwann cell numbers and myelination in PNS neuron-glia co-cultures. However, HRP3-II overexpression in CNS co-cultures did not alter myelination."	0
"32160551"	"NRBP1-Containing CRL2/CRL4A Regulates Amyloid β Production by Targeting BRI2 and BRI3 for Degradation.Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by accumulations of Aβ peptides. Production and fibrillation of Aβ are downregulated by BRI2 and BRI3, which are physiological inhibitors of amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and Aβ oligomerization. Here, we identify nuclear receptor binding protein 1 (NRBP1) as a substrate receptor of a Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL) that targets BRI2 and BRI3 for degradation. Moreover, we demonstrate that (1) dimerized NRBP1 assembles into a functional Cul2- and Cul4A-containing heterodimeric CRL through its BC-box and an overlapping cryptic H-box, (2) both Cul2 and Cul4A contribute to NRBP1 CRL function, and (3) formation of the NRBP1 heterodimeric CRL is strongly enhanced by chaperone-like function of TSC22D3 and TSC22D4. NRBP1 knockdown in neuronal cells results in an increase in the abundance of BRI2 and BRI3 and significantly reduces Aβ production. Thus, disrupting interactions between NRBP1 and its substrates BRI2 and BRI3 may provide a useful therapeutic strategy for AD."	1
"32905768"	"The Negative Cross-Talk between SAG/RBX2/ROC2 and APC/C E3 Ligases in Regulation of Cell Cycle Progression and Drug Resistance.Anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is a well-characterized E3 ligase that couples with UBE2C and UBE2S E2s for substrate ubiquitylation by the K11 linkage. Our recent data show that SAG/RBX2/ROC2, a RING component of Cullin-RING E3 ligase, also complexes with these E2s for K11-linked substrate polyubiquitylation. Whether these two E3s cross-talk with each other was previously unknown. Here, we report that SAG competes with APC2 for UBE2C/UBE2S binding to act as a potential endogenous inhibitor of APC/C, thereby regulating the G2-to-M progression. As such, SAG knockdown triggers premature activation of APC/C, leading to mitotic slippage and resistance to anti-microtubule drugs. On the other hand, SAG itself is a substrate of APC/C<sup>CDH1</sup> for targeted degradation at the G1 phase. The degradation-resistant mutant of SAG-R98A/L101A accelerates the G1-to-S progression. Our study reveals that the negative cross-talk between SAG and APC/C is likely a mechanism to ensure the fidelity of cell cycle progression."	1
"30704899"	"Pacer Is a Mediator of mTORC1 and GSK3-TIP60 Signaling in Regulation of Autophagosome Maturation and Lipid Metabolism.mTORC1 and GSK3 play critical roles in early stages of (macro)autophagy, but how they regulate late steps of autophagy remains poorly understood. Here we show that mTORC1 and GSK3-TIP60 signaling converge to modulate autophagosome maturation through Pacer, an autophagy regulator that was identified in our recent study. Hepatocyte-specific Pacer knockout in mice results in impaired autophagy flux, glycogen and lipid accumulation, and liver fibrosis. Under nutrient-rich conditions, mTORC1 phosphorylates Pacer at serine157 to disrupt the association of Pacer with Stx17 and the HOPS complex and thus abolishes Pacer-mediated autophagosome maturation. Importantly, dephosphorylation of Pacer under nutrient-deprived conditions promotes TIP60-mediated Pacer acetylation, which facilitates HOPS complex recruitment and is required for autophagosome maturation and lipid droplet clearance. This work not only identifies Pacer as a regulator in hepatic autophagy and liver homeostasis in vivo but also reveals a signal integration mechanism involved in late stages of autophagy and lipid metabolism."	1
"32554468"	"Discordance between GLP-1R gene and protein expression in mouse pancreatic islet cells.The insulinotropic actions of glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP-1R) in β-cells have made it a useful target to manage type 2 diabetes. Metabolic stress reduces β-cell sensitivity to GLP-1, yet the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We hypothesized that <i>Glp1r</i> expression is heterogeneous among β-cells and that metabolic stress decreases the number of GLP-1R-positive β-cells. Here, analyses of publicly available single-cell RNA-Seq sequencing (scRNASeq) data from mouse and human β-cells indicated that significant populations of β-cells do not express the <i>Glp1r</i> gene, supporting heterogeneous GLP-1R expression. To check these results, we used complementary approaches employing FACS coupled with quantitative RT-PCR, a validated GLP-1R antibody, and flow cytometry to quantify GLP-1R promoter activity, gene expression, and protein expression in mouse α-, β-, and δ-cells. Experiments with <i>Glp1r</i> reporter mice and a validated GLP-1R antibody indicated that >90% of the β-cells are GLP-1R positive, contradicting the findings with the scRNASeq data. α-cells did not express <i>Glp1r</i> mRNA and δ-cells expressed <i>Glp1r</i> mRNA but not protein. We also examined the expression patterns of GLP-1R in mouse models of metabolic stress. Multiparous female mice had significantly decreased β-cell <i>Glp1r</i> expression, but no reduction in GLP-1R protein levels or GLP-1R-mediated insulin secretion. These findings suggest caution in interpreting the results of scRNASeq for low-abundance transcripts such as the incretin receptors and indicate that GLP-1R is widely expressed in β-cells, absent in α-cells, and expressed at the mRNA, but not protein, level in δ-cells."	0
"32268087"	"Gut Microbiota Modulate CD8 T Cell Responses to Influence Colitis-Associated Tumorigenesis.There is increasing evidence that gut microbiome perturbations, also known as dysbiosis, can influence colorectal cancer development. To understand the mechanisms by which the gut microbiome modulates cancer susceptibility, we examine two wild-type mouse colonies with distinct gut microbial communities that develop significantly different tumor numbers using a mouse model of inflammation-associated tumorigenesis. We demonstrate that adaptive immune cells contribute to the different tumor susceptibilities associated with the two microbial communities. Mice that develop more tumors have increased colon lamina propria CD8<sup>+</sup> IFNγ<sup>+</sup> T cells before tumorigenesis but reduced CD8<sup>+</sup> IFNγ<sup>+</sup> T cells in tumors and adjacent tissues compared with mice that develop fewer tumors. Notably, intratumoral T cells in mice that develop more tumors exhibit increased exhaustion. Thus, these studies suggest that microbial dysbiosis can contribute to colon tumor susceptibility by hyperstimulating CD8 T cells to promote chronic inflammation and early T cell exhaustion, which can reduce anti-tumor immunity."	0
"31227231"	"HCF-1 Regulates De Novo Lipogenesis through a Nutrient-Sensitive Complex with ChREBP.Carbohydrate response element binding protein (ChREBP) is a key transcriptional regulator of de novo lipogenesis (DNL) in response to carbohydrates and in hepatic steatosis. Mechanisms underlying nutrient modulation of ChREBP are under active investigation. Here we identify host cell factor 1 (HCF-1) as a previously unknown ChREBP-interacting protein that is enriched in liver biopsies of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) patients. Biochemical and genetic studies show that HCF-1 is O-GlcNAcylated in response to glucose as a prerequisite for its binding to ChREBP and subsequent recruitment of OGT, ChREBP O-GlcNAcylation, and activation. The HCF-1:ChREBP complex resides at lipogenic gene promoters, where HCF-1 regulates H3K4 trimethylation to prime recruitment of the Jumonji C domain-containing histone demethylase PHF2 for epigenetic activation of these promoters. Overall, these findings define HCF-1's interaction with ChREBP as a previously unappreciated mechanism whereby glucose signals are both relayed to ChREBP and transmitted for epigenetic regulation of lipogenic genes."	1
"32231310"	"Cystine transporter regulation of pentose phosphate pathway dependency and disulfide stress exposes a targetable metabolic vulnerability in cancer.SLC7A11-mediated cystine uptake is critical for maintaining redox balance and cell survival. Here we show that this comes at a significant cost for cancer cells with high levels of SLC7A11. Actively importing cystine is potentially toxic due to its low solubility, forcing cancer cells with high levels of SLC7A11 (SLC7A11<sup>high</sup>) to constitutively reduce cystine to the more soluble cysteine. This presents a significant drain on the cellular NADPH pool and renders such cells dependent on the pentose phosphate pathway. Limiting glucose supply to SLC7A11<sup>high</sup> cancer cells results in marked accumulation of intracellular cystine, redox system collapse and rapid cell death, which can be rescued by treatments that prevent disulfide accumulation. We further show that inhibitors of glucose transporters selectively kill SLC7A11<sup>high</sup> cancer cells and suppress SLC7A11<sup>high</sup> tumour growth. Our results identify a coupling between SLC7A11-associated cystine metabolism and the pentose phosphate pathway, and uncover an accompanying metabolic vulnerability for therapeutic targeting in SLC7A11<sup>high</sup> cancers."	0
"31539506"	"A Nucleolar PARtnership Expands PARP Roles in RNA Biology and the Clinical Potential of PARP Inhibitors.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Kim et al. (2019) identify small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) as activators of poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) synthesis, demonstrating that this snoRNA-PAR partnership promotes cancer cell growth independent of DNA repair pathways."	0
"31422874"	"Naa10p Inhibits Beige Adipocyte-Mediated Thermogenesis through N-α-acetylation of Pgc1α.Diet-induced obesity can be caused by impaired thermogenesis of beige adipocytes, the brown-like adipocytes in white adipose tissue (WAT). Promoting brown-like features in WAT has been an attractive therapeutic approach for obesity. However, the mechanism underlying beige adipocyte formation is largely unknown. N-α-acetyltransferase 10 protein (Naa10p) catalyzes N-α-acetylation of nascent proteins, and overexpression of human Naa10p is linked to cancer development. Here, we report that both conventional and adipose-specific Naa10p deletions in mice result in increased energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and beige adipocyte differentiation. Mechanistically, Naa10p acetylates the N terminus of Pgc1α, which prevents Pgc1α from interacting with Pparγ to activate key genes, such as Ucp1, involved in beige adipocyte function. Consistently, fat tissues of obese human individuals show higher NAA10 expression. Thus, Naa10p-mediated N-terminal acetylation of Pgc1α downregulates thermogenic gene expression, making inhibition of Naa10p enzymatic activity a potential strategy for treating obesity."	1
"31919192"	"Aurora B-dependent Ndc80 degradation regulates kinetochore composition in meiosis.The kinetochore complex is a conserved machinery that connects chromosomes to spindle microtubules. During meiosis, the kinetochore is restructured to accommodate a specialized chromosome segregation pattern. In budding yeast, meiotic kinetochore remodeling is mediated by the temporal changes in the abundance of a single subunit called Ndc80. We previously described the regulatory events that control the timely synthesis of Ndc80. Here, we report that Ndc80 turnover is also tightly regulated in meiosis: Ndc80 degradation is active in meiotic prophase, but not in metaphase I. Ndc80 degradation depends on the ubiquitin ligase APC<sup>Ama1</sup> and is mediated by the proteasome. Importantly, Aurora B-dependent Ndc80 phosphorylation, a mark that has been previously implicated in correcting erroneous microtubule-kinetochore attachments, is essential for Ndc80 degradation in a microtubule-independent manner. The N terminus of Ndc80, including a 27-residue sequence and Aurora B phosphorylation sites, is both necessary and sufficient for kinetochore protein degradation. Finally, defects in Ndc80 turnover predispose meiotic cells to chromosome mis-segregation. Our study elucidates the mechanism by which meiotic cells modulate their kinetochore composition through regulated Ndc80 degradation, and demonstrates that Aurora B-dependent regulation of kinetochores extends beyond altering microtubule attachments."	1
"32315601"	"MYC Controls the Epstein-Barr Virus Lytic Switch.Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with multiple human malignancies. To evade immune detection, EBV switches between latent and lytic programs. How viral latency is maintained in tumors or in memory B cells, the reservoir for lifelong EBV infection, remains incompletely understood. To gain insights, we performed a human genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screen in Burkitt lymphoma B cells. Our analyses identified a network of host factors that repress lytic reactivation, centered on the transcription factor MYC, including cohesins, FACT, STAGA, and Mediator. Depletion of MYC or factors important for MYC expression reactivated the lytic cycle, including in Burkitt xenografts. MYC bound the EBV genome origin of lytic replication and suppressed its looping to the lytic cycle initiator BZLF1 promoter. Notably, MYC abundance decreases with plasma cell differentiation, a key lytic reactivation trigger. Our results suggest that EBV senses MYC abundance as a readout of B cell state and highlights Burkitt latency reversal therapeutic targets."	0
"32234484"	"Structural Insights into a Plant Mechanosensitive Ion Channel MSL1.The small conductance mechanosensitive ion channel (MscS)-like (MSL) proteins in plants are evolutionarily conserved homologs of the bacterial small conductance mechanosensitive ion channels. As the sole member of the Arabidopsis MSL family localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane, MSL1 is essential to maintain the normal membrane potential of mitochondria. Here, we report a cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of Arabidopsis thaliana MSL1 (AtMSL1) at 3.3 Å. The overall architecture of AtMSL1 is similar to MscS. However, the transmembrane domain of AtMSL1 is larger. Structural differences are observed in both the transmembrane and the matrix domain of AtMSL1. The carboxyl-terminus of AtMSL1 is more flexible and the β-barrel structure observed in MscS is absent. The side portals in AtMSL1 are significantly smaller, and enlarging the size of the portal by mutagenesis can increase the channel conductance. Our study provides a framework for eukaryotic MscS-like mechanosensitive ion channels and the gating mechanism of the MscS family."	0
"32640228"	"A Conserved Notochord Enhancer Controls Pancreas Development in Vertebrates.The notochord is an evolutionary novelty in vertebrates that functions as an important signaling center during development. Notochord ablation in chicken has demonstrated that it is crucial for pancreas development; however, the molecular mechanism has not been fully described. Here, we show that in zebrafish, the loss of function of nog2, a Bmp antagonist expressed in the notochord, impairs β cell differentiation, compatible with the antagonistic role of Bmp in β cell differentiation. In addition, we show that nog2 expression in the notochord is induced by at least one notochord enhancer and its loss of function reduces the number of pancreatic progenitors and impairs β cell differentiation. Tracing Nog2 diffusion, we show that Nog2 emanates from the notochord to the pancreas progenitor domain. Finally, we find a notochord enhancer in human and mice Nog genomic landscapes, suggesting that the acquisition of a Nog notochord enhancer occurred early in the vertebrate phylogeny and contributes to the development of complex organs like the pancreas."	0
"32783940"	"FOXK1 Participates in DNA Damage Response by Controlling 53BP1 Function.53BP1 plays a central role in dictating DNA repair choice between non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR), which is important for the sensitivity to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPis) of BRCA1-deficient cancers. In this study, we show that FOXK1 associates with 53BP1 and regulates 53BP1-dependent functions. FOXK1-53BP1 interaction is significantly enhanced upon DNA damage during the S phase in an ATM/CHK2-dependent manner, which reduces the association of 53BP1 with its downstream factors RIF1 and PTIP. Depletion of FOXK1 impairs DNA repair and induces compromised cell survival upon DNA damage. Overexpression of FOXK1 diminishes 53BP1 foci formation, which leads to resistance to PARPis and elevation of HR in BRCA1-deficient cells and decreased telomere fusion in TRF2-depleted cells. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that FOXK1 negatively regulates 53BP1 function by inhibiting 53BP1 localization to sites of DNA damage, which alters the DSB-induced protein complexes centering on 53BP1 and thus influences DNA repair choice."	1
"30711375"	"A Code of Mono-phosphorylation Modulates the Function of RB.Hyper-phosphorylation of RB controls its interaction with E2F and inhibits its tumor suppressor properties. However, during G1 active RB can be mono-phosphorylated on any one of 14 CDK phosphorylation sites. Here, we used quantitative proteomics to profile protein complexes formed by each mono-phosphorylated RB isoform (mP-RB) and identified the associated transcriptional outputs. The results show that the 14 sites of mono-phosphorylation co-ordinate RB's interactions and confer functional specificity. All 14 mP-RBs interact with E2F/DP proteins, but they provide different shades of E2F regulation. RB mono-phosphorylation at S811, for example, alters RB transcriptional activity by promoting its association with NuRD complexes. The greatest functional differences between mP-RBs are evident beyond the cell cycle machinery. RB mono-phosphorylation at S811 or T826 stimulates the expression of oxidative phosphorylation genes, increasing cellular oxygen consumption. These results indicate that RB activation signals are integrated in a phosphorylation code that determines the diversity of RB activity."	0
"32424275"	"Enhancer reprogramming driven by high-order assemblies of transcription factors promotes phenotypic plasticity and breast cancer endocrine resistance.Acquired therapy resistance is a major problem for anticancer treatment, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Using an established breast cancer cellular model, we show that endocrine resistance is associated with enhanced phenotypic plasticity, indicated by a general downregulation of luminal/epithelial differentiation markers and upregulation of basal/mesenchymal invasive markers. Consistently, similar gene expression changes are found in clinical breast tumours and patient-derived xenograft samples that are resistant to endocrine therapies. Mechanistically, the differential interactions between oestrogen receptor α and other oncogenic transcription factors, exemplified by GATA3 and AP1, drive global enhancer gain/loss reprogramming, profoundly altering breast cancer transcriptional programs. Our functional studies in multiple culture and xenograft models reveal a coordinated role of GATA3 and AP1 in re-organizing enhancer landscapes and regulating cancer phenotypes. Collectively, our study suggests that differential high-order assemblies of transcription factors on enhancers trigger genome-wide enhancer reprogramming, resulting in transcriptional transitions that promote tumour phenotypic plasticity and therapy resistance."	0
"32738194"	"Quality Control of ER Membrane Proteins by the RNF185/Membralin Ubiquitin Ligase Complex.Misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are degraded by ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Although ERAD components involved in degradation of luminal substrates are well characterized, much less is known about quality control of membrane proteins. Here, we analyzed the degradation pathways of two short-lived ER membrane model proteins in mammalian cells. Using a CRISPR-Cas9 genome-wide library screen, we identified an ERAD branch required for quality control of a subset of membrane proteins. Using biochemical and mass spectrometry approaches, we showed that this ERAD branch is defined by an ER membrane complex consisting of the ubiquitin ligase RNF185, the ubiquitin-like domain containing proteins TMUB1/2 and TMEM259/Membralin, a poorly characterized protein. This complex cooperates with cytosolic ubiquitin ligase UBE3C and p97 ATPase in degrading their membrane substrates. Our data reveal that ERAD branches have remarkable specificity for their membrane substrates, suggesting that multiple, perhaps combinatorial, determinants are involved in substrate selection."	1
"30853400"	"FIP200 Claw Domain Binding to p62 Promotes Autophagosome Formation at Ubiquitin Condensates.The autophagy cargo receptor p62 facilitates the condensation of misfolded, ubiquitin-positive proteins and their degradation by autophagy, but the molecular mechanism of p62 signaling to the core autophagy machinery is unclear. Here, we show that disordered residues 326-380 of p62 directly interact with the C-terminal region (CTR) of FIP200. Crystal structure determination shows that the FIP200 CTR contains a dimeric globular domain that we designated the ""Claw"" for its shape. The interaction of p62 with FIP200 is mediated by a positively charged pocket in the Claw, enhanced by p62 phosphorylation, mutually exclusive with the binding of p62 to LC3B, and it promotes degradation of ubiquitinated cargo by autophagy. Furthermore, the recruitment of the FIP200 CTR slows the phase separation of ubiquitinated proteins by p62 in a reconstituted system. Our data provide the molecular basis for a crosstalk between cargo condensation and autophagosome formation."	1
"31628042"	"PTPS Facilitates Compartmentalized LTBP1 S-Nitrosylation and Promotes Tumor Growth under Hypoxia.GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH), 6-pyruvoyltetrahydropterin synthase (PTPS), and sepiapterin reductase (SR) are sequentially responsible for de novo synthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), a known co-factor for nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The implication of BH4-biosynthesis process in tumorigenesis remains to be investigated. Here, we show that PTPS, which is highly expressed in early-stage colorectal cancer, is phosphorylated at Thr 58 by AMPK under hypoxia; this phosphorylation promotes PTPS binding to LTBP1 and subsequently drives iNOS-mediated LTBP1 S-nitrosylation through proximal-coupling BH4 production within the PTPS/iNOS/LTBP1 complex. In turn, LTBP1 S-nitrosylation results in proteasome-dependent LTBP1 protein degradation, revealing an inverse relationship between PTPS pT58 and LTBP1 stability. Physiologically, the repressive effect of PTPS on LTBP1 leads to impaired transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) secretion and thereby maintains tumor cell growth under hypoxia. Our findings illustrate a molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of LTBP1-TGF-β signaling by the BH4-biosynthesis pathway and highlight the specific requirement of PTPS for tumor growth."	1
"31732458"	"DNA Methylation and Histone H1 Jointly Repress Transposable Elements and Aberrant Intragenic Transcripts.DNA methylation and histone H1 mediate transcriptional silencing of genes and transposable elements, but how they interact is unclear. In plants and animals with mosaic genomic methylation, functionally mysterious methylation is also common within constitutively active housekeeping genes. Here, we show that H1 is enriched in methylated sequences, including genes, of Arabidopsis thaliana, yet this enrichment is independent of DNA methylation. Loss of H1 disperses heterochromatin, globally alters nucleosome organization, and activates H1-bound genes, but only weakly de-represses transposable elements. However, H1 loss strongly activates transposable elements hypomethylated through mutation of DNA methyltransferase MET1. Hypomethylation of genes also activates antisense transcription, which is modestly enhanced by H1 loss. Our results demonstrate that H1 and DNA methylation jointly maintain transcriptional homeostasis by silencing transposable elements and aberrant intragenic transcripts. Such functionality plausibly explains why DNA methylation, a well-known mutagen, has been maintained within coding sequences of crucial plant and animal genes."	0
"31230815"	"TAM Kinases Promote Necroptosis by Regulating Oligomerization of MLKL.Necroptosis, a cell death pathway mediated by the RIPK1-RIPK3-MLKL signaling cascade downstream of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), has been implicated in many inflammatory diseases. Members of the TAM (Tyro3, Axl, and Mer) family of receptor tyrosine kinases are known for their anti-apoptotic, oncogenic, and anti-inflammatory roles. Here, we identify an unexpected role of TAM kinases as promoters of necroptosis, a pro-inflammatory necrotic cell death. Pharmacologic or genetic targeting of TAM kinases results in a potent inhibition of necroptotic death in various cellular models. We identify phosphorylation of MLKL Tyr376 as a direct point of input from TAM kinases into the necroptosis signaling. The oligomerization of MLKL, but not its membranal translocation or phosphorylation by RIPK3, is controlled by TAM kinases. Importantly, both knockout and inhibition of TAM kinases protect mice from systemic inflammatory response syndrome. In conclusion, this study discovers that immunosuppressant TAM kinases are promoters of pro-inflammatory necroptosis, shedding light on the biological complexity of the regulation of inflammation."	1
"32690606"	"Tectorigenin enhances PDX1 expression and protects pancreatic β-cells by activating ERK and reducing ER stress.Pancreas/duodenum homeobox protein 1 (PDX1) is an important transcription factor that regulates islet β-cell proliferation, differentiation, and function. Reduced expression of PDX1 is thought to contribute to β-cell loss and dysfunction in diabetes. Thus, promoting PDX1 expression can be an effective strategy to preserve β-cell mass and function. Previously, we established a <i>PDX1</i> promoter-dependent luciferase system to screen agents that can promote PDX1 expression. Natural compound tectorigenin (TG) was identified as a promising candidate that could enhance the activity of the promoter for the <i>PDX1</i> gene. In this study, we first demonstrated that TG could promote the expression of PDX1 in β-cells via activating extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK), as indicated by increased phosphorylation of ERK; this effect was observed under either normal or glucotoxic/lipotoxic conditions. We then found that TG could suppress induced apoptosis and improved the viability of β-cells under glucotoxicity and lipotoxicity by activation of ERK and reduction of reactive oxygen species and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. These effects held true <i>in vivo</i> as well: prophylactic or therapeutic use of TG could obviously inhibit ER stress and decrease islet β-cell apoptosis in the pancreas of mice given a high-fat/high-sucrose diet (HFHSD), thus dramatically maintaining or restoring β-cell mass and islet size, respectively. Accordingly, both prophylactic and therapeutic use of TG improved HFHSD-impaired glucose metabolism in mice, as evidenced by ameliorating hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance. Taken together, TG, as an agent promoting PDX1 expression exhibits strong protective effects on islet β-cells both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i>."	1
"31327635"	"Unique Structural Features of the Mitochondrial AAA+ Protease AFG3L2 Reveal the Molecular Basis for Activity in Health and Disease.Mitochondrial AAA+ quality-control proteases regulate diverse aspects of mitochondrial biology through specialized protein degradation, but the underlying mechanisms of these enzymes remain poorly defined. The mitochondrial AAA+ protease AFG3L2 is of particular interest, as genetic mutations localized throughout AFG3L2 are linked to diverse neurodegenerative disorders. However, a lack of structural data has limited our understanding of how mutations impact enzymatic function. Here, we used cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) to determine a substrate-bound structure of the catalytic core of human AFG3L2. This structure identifies multiple specialized structural features that integrate with conserved motifs required for ATP-dependent translocation to unfold and degrade targeted proteins. Many disease-relevant mutations localize to these unique structural features of AFG3L2 and distinctly influence its activity and stability. Our results provide a molecular basis for neurological phenotypes associated with different AFG3L2 mutations and establish a structural framework to understand how different members of the AAA+ superfamily achieve specialized biological functions."	0
"32187532"	"A Susceptibility Locus on Chromosome 13 Profoundly Impacts the Stability of Genomic Imprinting in Mouse Pluripotent Stem Cells.Cultured pluripotent cells accumulate detrimental chromatin alterations, including DNA methylation changes at imprinted genes known as loss of imprinting (LOI). Although the occurrence of LOI is considered a stochastic phenomenon, here we document a genetic determinant that segregates mouse pluripotent cells into stable and unstable cell lines. Unstable lines exhibit hypermethylation at Dlk1-Dio3 and other imprinted loci, in addition to impaired developmental potential. Stimulation of demethylases by ascorbic acid prevents LOI and loss of developmental potential. Susceptibility to LOI greatly differs between commonly used mouse strains, which we use to map a causal region on chromosome 13 with quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis. Our observations identify a strong genetic determinant of locus-specific chromatin abnormalities in pluripotent cells and provide a non-invasive way to suppress them. This highlights the importance of considering genetics in conjunction with culture conditions for assuring the quality of pluripotent cells for biomedical applications."	0
"32521268"	"Vangl2 in the Dentate Network Modulates Pattern Separation and Pattern Completion.The organization of spatial information, including pattern completion and pattern separation processes, relies on the hippocampal circuits, yet the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying these two processes are elusive. Here, we find that loss of Vangl2, a core PCP gene, results in opposite effects on pattern completion and pattern separation processes. Mechanistically, we show that Vangl2 loss maintains young postmitotic granule cells in an immature state, providing increased cellular input for pattern separation. The genetic ablation of Vangl2 disrupts granule cell morpho-functional maturation and further prevents CaMKII and GluA1 phosphorylation, disrupting the stabilization of AMPA receptors. As a functional consequence, LTP at lateral perforant path-GC synapses is impaired, leading to defects in pattern completion behavior. In conclusion, we show that Vangl2 exerts a bimodal regulation on young and mature GCs, and its disruption leads to an imbalance in hippocampus-dependent pattern completion and separation processes."	0
"32485148"	"ERK2 Phosphorylates PFAS to Mediate Posttranslational Control of De Novo Purine Synthesis.The RAS-ERK/MAPK (RAS-extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway integrates growth-promoting signals to stimulate cell growth and proliferation, at least in part, through alterations in metabolic gene expression. However, examples of direct and rapid regulation of the metabolic pathways by the RAS-ERK pathway remain elusive. We find that physiological and oncogenic ERK signaling activation leads to acute metabolic flux stimulation through the de novo purine synthesis pathway, thereby increasing building block availability for RNA and DNA synthesis, which is required for cell growth and proliferation. We demonstrate that ERK2, but not ERK1, phosphorylates the purine synthesis enzyme PFAS (phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase) at T619 in cells to stimulate de novo purine synthesis. The expression of nonphosphorylatable PFAS (T619A) decreases purine synthesis, RAS-dependent cancer cell-colony formation, and tumor growth. Thus, ERK2-mediated PFAS phosphorylation facilitates the increase in nucleic acid synthesis required for anabolic cell growth and proliferation."	1
"32937118"	"The Dorsal Lateral Habenula-Interpeduncular Nucleus Pathway Is Essential for Left-Right-Dependent Decision Making in Zebrafish.How animals behave using suitable information to adapt to the environment is not well known. We address this issue by devising an automated system to let zebrafish exploit either internal (choice of left or right turn) or external (choice of cue color) navigation information to achieve operant behavior by reward reinforcement learning. The results of behavioral task with repeated rule shift indicate that zebrafish can learn operant behavior using both internal-directional and external-cued information. The learning time is reduced as rule shifts are repeated, revealing the capacity of zebrafish to adaptively retrieve the suitable rule memory after training. Zebrafish with an impairment in the neural pathway from the lateral subregion of the dorsal habenula to the interpeduncular nucleus, known to be potentiated in the winners of social conflicts, show specific defects in the application of the internal-directional rule, suggesting the dual roles of this pathway."	0
"32243832"	"How RNA-Binding Proteins Interact with RNA: Molecules and Mechanisms.RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) comprise a large class of over 2,000 proteins that interact with transcripts in all manner of RNA-driven processes. The structures and mechanisms that RBPs use to bind and regulate RNA are incredibly diverse. In this review, we take a look at the components of protein-RNA interaction, from the molecular level to multi-component interaction. We first summarize what is known about protein-RNA molecular interactions based on analyses of solved structures. We additionally describe software currently available for predicting protein-RNA interaction and other resources useful for the study of RBPs. We then review the structure and function of seventeen known RNA-binding domains and analyze the hydrogen bonds adopted by protein-RNA structures on a domain-by-domain basis. We conclude with a summary of the higher-level mechanisms that regulate protein-RNA interactions."	0
"32814047"	"Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzyme 2S Enhances Viral Replication by Inhibiting Type I IFN Production through Recruiting USP15 to Deubiquitinate TBK1.Type I interferon (IFN) plays an essential role in the host innate immune responses. Several ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) family members were reported to regulate type I IFN production and host antiviral immune responses. However, the molecular mechanisms are still not fully understood. Here, we report that UBE2S acts as a negative regulator in the type I IFN signaling pathway. Ectopic expression of UBE2S inhibits host antiviral immune responses and enhances viral replications, whereas deficiency of UBE2S enhances host antiviral immune responses and suppresses viral replications both in vitro and in vivo. Inhibition of type І IFN production by UBE2S is independent on its E2 and E3 enzymic activity. Mechanistically, UBE2S interacts with TBK1 and recruits ubiquitin-specific protease 15 (USP15) to remove Lys63 (K63)-linked polyubiquitin chains of TBK1. Our findings reveal a role of the UBE2S-USP15-TBK1 axis in the regulation of host antiviral innate immune responses."	1
"32905781"	"YTHDF2/3 Are Required for Somatic Reprogramming through Different RNA Deadenylation Pathways.N<sup>6</sup>-methyladenosine (m<sup>6</sup>A), the most abundant reversible modification on eukaryote messenger RNA, is recognized by a series of readers, including the YT521-B homology domain family (YTHDF) proteins, which are coupled to perform physiological functions. Here, we report that YTHDF2 and YTHDF3, but not YTHDF1, are required for reprogramming of somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Mechanistically, we found that YTHDF3 recruits the PAN2-PAN3 deadenylase complex and conduces to reprogramming by promoting mRNA clearance of somatic genes, including Tead2 and Tgfb1, which parallels the activity of the YTHDF2-CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. Ythdf2/3 deficiency represses mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition (MET) and chromatin silencing at loci containing the TEAD motif, contributing to decreased reprogramming efficiency. Moreover, RNA interference of Tgfb1 or the Hippo signaling effectors Yap1, Taz, and Tead2 rescues Ythdf2/3-defective reprogramming. Overall, YTHDF2/3 couples RNA deadenylation and regulation with the clearance of somatic genes and provides insights into iPSC reprogramming at the posttranscriptional level."	1
"32661197"	"The molecular virology of coronaviruses.Few human pathogens have been the focus of as much concentrated worldwide attention as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the cause of COVID-19. Its emergence into the human population and ensuing pandemic came on the heels of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), two other highly pathogenic coronavirus spillovers, which collectively have reshaped our view of a virus family previously associated primarily with the common cold. It has placed intense pressure on the collective scientific community to develop therapeutics and vaccines, whose engineering relies on a detailed understanding of coronavirus biology. Here, we present the molecular virology of coronavirus infection, including its entry into cells, its remarkably sophisticated gene expression and replication mechanisms, its extensive remodeling of the intracellular environment, and its multifaceted immune evasion strategies. We highlight aspects of the viral life cycle that may be amenable to antiviral targeting as well as key features of its biology that await discovery."	0
"32209477"	"Shifts in Ribosome Engagement Impact Key Gene Sets in Neurodevelopment and Ubiquitination in Rett Syndrome.Regulation of translation during human development is poorly understood, and its dysregulation is associated with Rett syndrome (RTT). To discover shifts in mRNA ribosomal engagement (RE) during human neurodevelopment, we use parallel translating ribosome affinity purification sequencing (TRAP-seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on control and RTT human induced pluripotent stem cells, neural progenitor cells, and cortical neurons. We find that 30% of transcribed genes are translationally regulated, including key gene sets (neurodevelopment, transcription and translation factors, and glycolysis). Approximately 35% of abundant intergenic long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are ribosome engaged. Neurons translate mRNAs more efficiently and have longer 3' UTRs, and RE correlates with elements for RNA-binding proteins. RTT neurons have reduced global translation and compromised mTOR signaling, and >2,100 genes are translationally dysregulated. NEDD4L E3-ubiquitin ligase is translationally impaired, ubiquitinated protein levels are reduced, and protein targets accumulate in RTT neurons. Overall, the dynamic translatome in neurodevelopment is disturbed in RTT and provides insight into altered ubiquitination that may have therapeutic implications."	0
"32023464"	"Heterogeneity of Satellite Cells Implicates DELTA1/NOTCH2 Signaling in Self-Renewal.How satellite cells and their progenitors balance differentiation and self-renewal to achieve sustainable tissue regeneration is not well understood. A major roadblock to understanding satellite cell fate decisions has been the difficulty of studying this process in vivo. By visualizing expression dynamics of myogenic transcription factors during early regeneration in vivo, we identify the time point at which cells undergo decisions to differentiate or self-renew. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals heterogeneity of satellite cells, including a subpopulation enriched in Notch2 receptor expression, during both muscle homeostasis and regeneration. Furthermore, we reveal that differentiating cells express the Dll1 ligand. Using antagonistic antibodies, we demonstrate that the DLL1 and NOTCH2 signaling pair is required for satellite cell self-renewal. Thus, differentiating cells provide the self-renewing signal during regeneration, enabling proportional regeneration in response to injury while maintaining the satellite cell pool. These findings have implications for therapeutic control of muscle regeneration."	0
"32592681"	"Robust Hi-C Maps of Enhancer-Promoter Interactions Reveal the Function of Non-coding Genome in Neural Development and Diseases.Genome-wide mapping of chromatin interactions at high resolution remains experimentally and computationally challenging. Here we used a low-input ""easy Hi-C"" protocol to map the 3D genome architecture in human neurogenesis and brain tissues and also demonstrated that a rigorous Hi-C bias-correction pipeline (HiCorr) can significantly improve the sensitivity and robustness of Hi-C loop identification at sub-TAD level, especially the enhancer-promoter (E-P) interactions. We used HiCorr to compare the high-resolution maps of chromatin interactions from 10 tissue or cell types with a focus on neurogenesis and brain tissues. We found that dynamic chromatin loops are better hallmarks for cellular differentiation than compartment switching. HiCorr allowed direct observation of cell-type- and differentiation-specific E-P aggregates spanning large neighborhoods, suggesting a mechanism that stabilizes enhancer contacts during development. Interestingly, we concluded that Hi-C loop outperforms eQTL in explaining neurological GWAS results, revealing a unique value of high-resolution 3D genome maps in elucidating the disease etiology."	0
"31542296"	"Rad52 Restrains Resection at DNA Double-Strand Break Ends in Yeast.Rad52 is a key factor for homologous recombination (HR) in yeast. Rad52 helps assemble Rad51-ssDNA nucleoprotein filaments that catalyze DNA strand exchange, and it mediates single-strand DNA annealing. We find that Rad52 has an even earlier function in HR in restricting DNA double-stranded break ends resection that generates 3' single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) tails. In fission yeast, Exo1 is the primary resection nuclease, with the helicase Rqh1 playing a minor role. We demonstrate that the choice of two extensive resection pathways is regulated by Rad52. In rad52 cells, the resection rate increases from ∼3-5 kb/h up to ∼10-20 kb/h in an Rqh1-dependent manner, while Exo1 becomes dispensable. Budding yeast Rad52 similarly inhibits Sgs1-dependent resection. Single-molecule analysis with purified budding yeast proteins shows that Rad52 competes with Sgs1 for DNA end binding and inhibits Sgs1 translocation along DNA. These results identify a role for Rad52 in limiting ssDNA generated by end resection."	1
"32126207"	"FBXL5 Regulates IRP2 Stability in Iron Homeostasis via an Oxygen-Responsive [2Fe2S] Cluster.Cellular iron homeostasis is dominated by FBXL5-mediated degradation of iron regulatory protein 2 (IRP2), which is dependent on both iron and oxygen. However, how the physical interaction between FBXL5 and IRP2 is regulated remains elusive. Here, we show that the C-terminal substrate-binding domain of FBXL5 harbors a [2Fe2S] cluster in the oxidized state. A cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of the IRP2-FBXL5-SKP1 complex reveals that the cluster organizes the FBXL5 C-terminal loop responsible for recruiting IRP2. Interestingly, IRP2 binding to FBXL5 hinges on the oxidized state of the [2Fe2S] cluster maintained by ambient oxygen, which could explain hypoxia-induced IRP2 stabilization. Steric incompatibility also allows FBXL5 to physically dislodge IRP2 from iron-responsive element RNA to facilitate its turnover. Taken together, our studies have identified an iron-sulfur cluster within FBXL5, which promotes IRP2 polyubiquitination and degradation in response to both iron and oxygen concentrations."	0
"32023470"	"OTUB1 Is a Key Regulator of RIG-I-Dependent Immune Signaling and Is Targeted for Proteasomal Degradation by Influenza A NS1.Deubiquitylases (DUBs) regulate critical signaling pathways at the intersection of host immunity and viral pathogenesis. Although RIG-I activation is heavily dependent on ubiquitylation, systematic analyses of DUBs that regulate this pathway have not been performed. Using a ubiquitin C-terminal electrophile, we profile DUBs that function during influenza A virus (IAV) infection and isolate OTUB1 as a key regulator of RIG-I-dependent antiviral responses. Upon infection, OTUB1 relocalizes from the nucleus to mitochondrial membranes together with RIG-I, viral PB2, and NS1. Its expression depends on competing effects of interferon stimulation and IAV-triggered degradation. OTUB1 activates RIG-I via a dual mechanism of K48 polyubiquitin hydrolysis and formation of an E2-repressive complex with UBCH5c. We reconstitute this mechanism in a cell-free system comprising [<sup>35</sup>S]IRF3, purified RIG-I, mitochondrial membranes, and cytosol expressing OTUB1 variants. A range of IAV NS1 proteins trigger proteasomal degradation of OTUB1, antagonizing the RIG-I signaling cascade and antiviral responses."	1
"32209466"	"An mRNA-mRNA Interaction Couples Expression of a Virulence Factor and Its Chaperone in Listeria monocytogenes.Bacterial pathogens often employ RNA regulatory elements located in the 5' untranslated regions (UTRs) to control gene expression. Using a comparative structural analysis, we examine the structure of 5' UTRs at a global scale in the pathogenic bacterium Listeria monocytogenes under different conditions. In addition to discovering an RNA thermoswitch and detecting simultaneous interaction of ribosomes and small RNAs with mRNA, we identify structural changes in the 5' UTR of an mRNA encoding the post-translocation chaperone PrsA2 during infection conditions. We demonstrate that the 5' UTR of the prsA2 mRNA base pairs with the 3' UTR of the full-length hly mRNA encoding listeriolysin O, thus preventing RNase J1-mediated degradation of the prsA2 transcript. Mutants lacking the hly-prsA2 interaction exhibit reduced virulence properties. This work highlights an additional level of RNA regulation, where the mRNA encoding a chaperone is stabilized by the mRNA encoding its substrate."	0
"32160544"	"Glioblastoma Cell Resistance to EGFR and MET Inhibition Can Be Overcome via Blockade of FGFR-SPRY2 Bypass Signaling.SPRY2 is a purported tumor suppressor in certain cancers that promotes tumor growth and resistance to receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors in glioblastoma. Here, we identify a SPRY2-dependent bypass signaling mechanism in glioblastoma that drives resistance to EGFR and MET inhibition. In glioblastoma cells treated with EGFR and MET inhibitors, SPRY2 expression is initially suppressed but eventually rebounds due to NF-κB pathway activation, resultant autocrine FGFR activation, and reactivation of ERK, which controls SPRY2 transcription. In cells where FGFR autocrine signaling does not occur and ERK does not reactivate, or in which ERK reactivates but SPRY2 cannot be expressed, EGFR and MET inhibitors are more effective at promoting death. The same mechanism also drives acquired resistance to EGFR and MET inhibition. Furthermore, tumor xenografts expressing an ERK-dependent bioluminescent reporter engineered for these studies reveal that this bypass resistance mechanism plays out in vivo but can be overcome through simultaneous FGFR inhibition."	1
"32059760"	"A Conserved Kinase-Based Body-Temperature Sensor Globally Controls Alternative Splicing and Gene Expression.Homeothermic organisms maintain their core body temperature in a narrow, tightly controlled range. Whether and how subtle circadian oscillations or disease-associated changes in core body temperature are sensed and integrated in gene expression programs remain elusive. Furthermore, a thermo-sensor capable of sensing the small temperature differentials leading to temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) in poikilothermic reptiles has not been identified. Here, we show that the activity of CDC-like kinases (CLKs) is highly responsive to physiological temperature changes, which is conferred by structural rearrangements within the kinase activation segment. Lower body temperature activates CLKs resulting in strongly increased phosphorylation of SR proteins in vitro and in vivo. This globally controls temperature-dependent alternative splicing and gene expression, with wide implications in circadian, tissue-specific, and disease-associated settings. This temperature sensor is conserved across evolution and adapted to growth temperatures of diverse poikilotherms. The dynamic temperature range of reptilian CLK homologs suggests a role in TSD."	1
"31914400"	"DEAD-Box Helicase 18 Counteracts PRC2 to Safeguard Ribosomal DNA in Pluripotency Regulation.Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) exhibit high levels of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) transcription and ribosome biogenesis. Here, we reveal an unexpected role for an essential DEAD-box helicase, DDX18, in antagonizing the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) to prevent deposition of the repressive H3K27me3 mark onto rDNA in pluripotent cells. DDX18 binds and sequesters PRC2 in the outer layer of the nucleolus and counteracts PRC2 complex formation in vivo and in vitro. DDX18 knockdown leads to increased occupancy of PRC2 and H3K27me3 at rDNA loci, accompanied by drastically decreased rRNA transcription and reduced ribosomal protein expression and translation. Auxin-induced rapid degradation of DDX18 enhances PRC2 binding at rDNA. The inhibition of PRC2 partially rescues the effects of DDX18 depletion on rRNA transcription and ESC self-renewal. These results demonstrate a critical role for DDX18 in safeguarding the chromatin and transcriptional integrity of rDNA by counteracting the epigenetic silencing machinery to promote pluripotency."	1
"32651234"	"The chaperone Hsp70 is a BH3 receptor activated by the pro-apoptotic Bim to stabilize anti-apoptotic clients.The chaperone heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is crucial for avoiding protein misfolding under stress, but is also up-regulated in many kinds of cancers, where its ability to buffer cellular stress prevents apoptosis. Previous research has suggested Hsp70 interacts with pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins, including Bim and Bax. However, a definitive demonstration of this interaction awaits, and insights into the structural basis and molecular mechanism remain unclear. Earlier studies have identified a Bcl-2 homology 3 (BH3) domain present in Bcl-2 family members that engages receptors to stimulate apoptosis. We now show that Hsp70 physically interacts with pro-apoptotic multidomain and BH3-only proteins via a BH3 domain, thereby serving as a novel BH3 receptor, using <i>in vitro</i> fluorescent polarization (FP), isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), and cell-based co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) experiments, <sup>1</sup>H-<sup>15</sup>N-transverse relaxation optimized spectroscopy (TROSY-HSQC), trypsin proteolysis, ATPase activity, and denatured rhodanese aggregation measurements further demonstrated that BimBH3 binds to a novel allosteric site in the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD) of Hsp70, by which Bim acts as a positive co-chaperone to promote the ATPase activity and chaperone functions. A dual role of Hsp70's anti-apoptotic function was revealed that when it keeps Bim in check to inhibit apoptosis, it simultaneously stabilizes oncogenic clients including AKT and Raf-1 with the aid of Bim. Two faces of Bim in cell fate regulation were revealed that in opposite to its well-established pro-apoptotic activator role, Bim could help the folding of oncogenic proteins."	1
"30824372"	"P-TEFb Activation by RBM7 Shapes a Pro-survival Transcriptional Response to Genotoxic Stress.DNA damage response (DDR) involves dramatic transcriptional alterations, the mechanisms of which remain ill defined. Here, we show that following genotoxic stress, the RNA-binding motif protein 7 (RBM7) stimulates RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription and promotes cell viability by activating the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) via its release from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (7SK snRNP). This is mediated by activation of p38<sup>MAPK</sup>, which triggers enhanced binding of RBM7 with core subunits of 7SK snRNP. In turn, P-TEFb relocates to chromatin to induce transcription of short units, including key DDR genes and multiple classes of non-coding RNAs. Critically, interfering with the axis of RBM7 and P-TEFb provokes cellular hypersensitivity to DNA-damage-inducing agents due to activation of apoptosis. Our work uncovers the importance of stress-dependent stimulation of Pol II pause release, which enables a pro-survival transcriptional response that is crucial for cell fate upon genotoxic insult."	1
"32209476"	"OXR1A, a Coactivator of PRMT5 Regulating Histone Arginine Methylation.Oxidation resistance gene 1 (OXR1) protects cells against oxidative stress. We find that male mice with brain-specific isoform A knockout (Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup>) develop fatty liver. RNA sequencing of male Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> liver indicates decreased growth hormone (GH) signaling, which is known to affect liver metabolism. Indeed, Gh expression is reduced in male mice Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary gland and in rat Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary adenoma cell-line GH3. Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> male mice show reduced fasting-blood GH levels. Pull-down and proximity ligation assays reveal that OXR1A is associated with arginine methyl transferase PRMT5. OXR1A-depleted GH3 cells show reduced symmetrical dimethylation of histone H3 arginine 2 (H3R2me2s), a product of PRMT5 catalyzed methylation, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) of H3R2me2s shows reduced Gh promoter enrichment. Finally, we demonstrate with purified proteins that OXR1A stimulates PRMT5/MEP50-catalyzed H3R2me2s. Our data suggest that OXR1A is a coactivator of PRMT5, regulating histone arginine methylation and thereby GH production within the pituitary gland."	1
"31914402"	"TRIM32/USP11 Balances ARID1A Stability and the Oncogenic/Tumor-Suppressive Status of Squamous Cell Carcinoma.Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is an aggressive epithelial malignancy, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying SCC development are elusive. ARID1A is frequently mutated in various cancer types, but both mutation rates and expression levels of ARID1A are ubiquitously low in SCCs. Here, we reveal that excessive protein degradation mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) contributes to the loss of ARID1A expression in SCC. We identify that the E3 ligase TRIM32 and the deubiquitinase USP11 play key roles in controlling ARID1A stability. TRIM32 depletion inhibits SCC cell proliferation, metastasis, and chemoresistance by stabilizing ARID1A, while USP11 depletion promotes SCC development by promoting ARID1A degradation. We show that syndecan-2 (SDC2) is the downstream target of both ARID1A and USP11 and that SDC2 depletion abolishes the oncogenic function of ARID1A loss. In summary, our data reveal UPS-mediated protein degradation as a mechanism underlying ARID1A loss and propose an important role for the TRIM32/USP11-ARID1A-SDC2 axis in SCC."	1
"31735643"	"Dynamic Regulation of ME1 Phosphorylation and Acetylation Affects Lipid Metabolism and Colorectal Tumorigenesis.PGAM5 is a mitochondrial serine/threonine phosphatase that regulates multiple metabolic pathways and contributes to tumorigenesis in a poorly understood manner. We show here that PGAM5 inhibition attenuates lipid metabolism and colorectal tumorigenesis in mice. PGAM5-mediated dephosphorylation of malic enzyme 1 (ME1) at S336 allows increased ACAT1-mediated K337 acetylation, leading to ME1 dimerization and activation, both of which are reversed by NEK1 kinase-mediated S336 phosphorylation. SIRT6 deacetylase antagonizes ACAT1 function in a manner that involves mutually exclusive ME1 S336 phosphorylation and K337 acetylation. ME1 also promotes nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) production, lipogenesis, and colorectal cancers in which ME1 transcripts are upregulated and ME1 protein is hypophosphorylated at S336 and hyperacetylated at K337. PGAM5 and ME1 upregulation occur via direct transcriptional activation mediated by β-catenin/TCF1. Thus, the balance between PGAM5-mediated dephosphorylation of ME1 S336 and ACAT1-mediated acetylation of K337 strongly influences NADPH generation, lipid metabolism, and the susceptibility to colorectal tumorigenesis."	1
"32049014"	"Hepatic DNAJB9 Drives Anabolic Biasing to Reduce Steatosis and Obesity.Nutrients stimulate the anabolic synthesis of proteins and lipids, but selective insulin resistance in obesity biases the anabolic program toward lipogenesis. Here, we report the identification of a DNAJB9-driven program that favors protein synthesis and energy production over lipid accumulation. We show there are two pools of DNAJB9 cochaperone. DNAJB9 in the ER lumen promotes the degradation of the lipogenic transcription factor SREBP1c through ERAD, whereas its counterpart on the ER membrane promotes the assembly of mTORC2 in the cytosol and stimulates the synthesis of proteins and ATP. The expression of Dnajb9 is induced by nutrients and downregulated in the obese mouse liver. Restoration of hepatic DNAJB9 expression effectively improves insulin sensitivity, restores protein synthesis, and suppresses food intake, accompanied by reduced hepatic steatosis and adiposity in multiple mouse models of obesity. Therefore, targeting the anabolic balance may provide a unique opportunity to tackle obesity and diabetes."	1
"32393884"	"Targeted reprogramming of H3K27me3 resets epigenetic memory in plant paternal chromatin.Epigenetic marks are reprogrammed in the gametes to reset genomic potential in the next generation. In mammals, paternal chromatin is extensively reprogrammed through the global erasure of DNA methylation and the exchange of histones with protamines<sup>1,2</sup>. Precisely how the paternal epigenome is reprogrammed in flowering plants has remained unclear since DNA is not demethylated and histones are retained in sperm<sup>3,4</sup>. Here, we describe a multi-layered mechanism by which H3K27me3 is globally lost from histone-based sperm chromatin in Arabidopsis. This mechanism involves the silencing of H3K27me3 writers, activity of H3K27me3 erasers and deposition of a sperm-specific histone, H3.10 (ref. <sup>5</sup>), which we show is immune to lysine 27 methylation. The loss of H3K27me3 facilitates the transcription of genes essential for spermatogenesis and pre-configures sperm with a chromatin state that forecasts gene expression in the next generation. Thus, plants have evolved a specific mechanism to simultaneously differentiate male gametes and reprogram the paternal epigenome."	0
"32719005"	"Structure of a collagen VI α3 chain VWA domain array: adaptability and functional implications of myopathy causing mutations.Collagen VI is a ubiquitous heterotrimeric protein of the extracellular matrix (ECM) that plays an essential role in the proper maintenance of skeletal muscle. Mutations in collagen VI lead to a spectrum of congenital myopathies, from the mild Bethlem myopathy to the severe Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. Collagen VI contains only a short triple helix and consists primarily of von Willebrand factor type A (VWA) domains, protein-protein interaction modules found in a range of ECM proteins. Disease-causing mutations occur commonly in the VWA domains, and the second VWA domain of the α3 chain, the N2 domain, harbors several such mutations. Here, we investigate structure-function relationships of the N2 mutations to shed light on their possible myopathy mechanisms. We determined the X-ray crystal structure of N2, combined with monitoring secretion efficiency in cell culture of selected N2 single-domain mutants, finding that mutations located within the central core of the domain severely affect secretion efficiency. In longer α3 chain constructs, spanning N6-N3, small-angle X-ray scattering demonstrates that the tandem VWA array has a modular architecture and samples multiple conformations in solution. Single-particle EM confirmed the presence of multiple conformations. Structural adaptability appears intrinsic to the VWA domain region of collagen VI α3 and has implications for binding interactions and modulating stiffness within the ECM."	0
"32937133"	"Functional Dissection of Basal Ganglia Inhibitory Inputs onto Substantia Nigra Dopaminergic Neurons.Substantia nigra (SNc) dopaminergic neurons respond to aversive stimuli with inhibitory pauses in firing followed by transient rebound activation. We tested integration of inhibitory synaptic inputs onto SNc neurons from genetically defined populations in dorsal striatum (striosome and matrix) and external globus pallidus (GPe; parvalbumin- and Lhx6-positive), and examined their contribution to pause-rebound firing. Activation of striosome projections, which target ""dendron bouquets"" in the pars reticulata (SNr), consistently quiets firing and relief from striosome inhibition triggers rebound activity. Striosomal inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) display a prominent GABA-B receptor-mediated component that strengthens the impact of SNr dendrite synapses on somatic excitability and enables rebounding. By contrast, GPe projections activate GABA-A receptors on the soma and proximal dendrites but do not result in rebounding. Lastly, optical mapping shows that dorsal striatum selectively inhibits the ventral population of SNc neurons, which are intrinsically capable of rebounding. Therefore, we define a distinct striatonigral circuit for generating dopamine rebound."	0
"32049013"	"A FLCN-TFE3 Feedback Loop Prevents Excessive Glycogenesis and Phagocyte Activation by Regulating Lysosome Activity.The tumor suppressor folliculin (FLCN) suppresses nuclear translocation of TFE3, a master transcription factor for lysosomal biogenesis, via regulation of amino-acid-sensing Rag GTPases. However, the importance of this lysosomal regulation in mammalian physiology remains unclear. Following hematopoietic-lineage-specific Flcn deletion in mice, we found expansion of vacuolated phagocytes that accumulate glycogen in their cytoplasm, phenotypes reminiscent of lysosomal storage disorder (LSD). We report that TFE3 acts in a feedback loop to transcriptionally activate FLCN expression, and FLCN loss disrupts this loop, augmenting TFE3 activity. Tfe3 deletion in Flcn knockout mice reduces the number of phagocytes and ameliorates LSD-like phenotypes. We further reveal that TFE3 stimulates glycogenesis by promoting the expression of glycogenesis genes, including Gys1 and Gyg, upon loss of Flcn. Taken together, we propose that the FLCN-TFE3 feedback loop acts as a rheostat to control lysosome activity and prevents excessive glycogenesis and LSD-like phagocyte activation."	1
"32877667"	"CD49a Regulates Cutaneous Resident Memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T Cell Persistence and Response.CD8<sup>+</sup> tissue-resident memory T cells (T<sub>RM</sub>) persist at sites of previous infection, where they provide rapid local protection against pathogen challenge. CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> expressing the α1 chain (CD49a) of integrin VLA-1 have been identified within sites of resolved skin infection and in vitiligo lesions. We demonstrate that CD49a is expressed early following T cell activation in vivo, and TGF-β and IL-12 induce CD49a expression by CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in vitro. Despite this rapid expression, CD49a is not required for the generation of a primary CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell response to cutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, migration of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells across the epidermal basement membrane, or positioning of T<sub>RM</sub> within basal epidermis. Rather, CD49a supports CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> persistence within skin, regulates epidermal CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> dendritic extensions, and increases the frequency of IFN-γ<sup>+</sup> CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> following local antigen challenge. Our results suggest that CD49a promotes optimal cutaneous CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub>-mediated immunity."	1
"32035036"	"Dopamine Uses the DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A Signaling Axis to Block the TRAF6-Mediated NF-κB Pathway and Suppress Systemic Inflammation.The functional relevance and mechanistic basis of the effects of the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) on inflammation remain unclear. Here we reveal that DA inhibited TLR2-induced NF-κB activation and inflammation via the DRD5 receptor in macrophages. We found that the DRD5 receptor, via the EFD and IYX(X)I/L motifs in its CT and IC3 loop, respectively, can directly recruit TRAF6 and its negative regulator ARRB2 to form a multi-protein complex also containing downstream signaling proteins, such as TAK1, IKKs, and PP2A, that impairs TRAF6-mediated activation of NF-κB and expression of pro-inflammatory genes. Furthermore, the DA-DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A signaling axis can prevent S. aureus-induced inflammation and protect mice against S. aureus-induced sepsis and meningitis after DA treatment. Collectively, these findings provide the first demonstration of DA-DRD5 signaling acting to control inflammation and a detailed delineation of the underlying mechanism and identify the DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A axis as a potential target for future therapy of inflammation-associated diseases such as meningitis and sepsis."	1
"31495564"	"High-Throughput Single-Cell Sequencing with Linear Amplification.Conventional methods for single-cell genome sequencing are limited with respect to uniformity and throughput. Here, we describe sci-L3, a single-cell sequencing method that combines combinatorial indexing (sci-) and linear (L) amplification. The sci-L3 method adopts a 3-level (3) indexing scheme that minimizes amplification biases while enabling exponential gains in throughput. We demonstrate the generalizability of sci-L3 with proof-of-concept demonstrations of single-cell whole-genome sequencing (sci-L3-WGS), targeted sequencing (sci-L3-target-seq), and a co-assay of the genome and transcriptome (sci-L3-RNA/DNA). We apply sci-L3-WGS to profile the genomes of >10,000 sperm and sperm precursors from F1 hybrid mice, mapping 86,786 crossovers and characterizing rare chromosome mis-segregation events in meiosis, including instances of whole-genome equational chromosome segregation. We anticipate that sci-L3 assays can be applied to fully characterize recombination landscapes, to couple CRISPR perturbations and measurements of genome stability, and to other goals requiring high-throughput, high-coverage single-cell sequencing."	0
"32698003"	"Enhanced Sensory Coding in Mouse Vibrissal and Visual Cortex through TRPA1.Transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) is a non-selective cation channel, broadly expressed throughout the body. Despite its expression in the mammalian brain, little is known about the contribution of TRPA1 to cortical function. Here, we characterize how TRPA1 affects sensory information processing in two cortical areas in mice: the primary vibrissal (whisker) somatosensory cortex (vS1) and the primary visual cortex (V1). In vS1, local activation of TRPA1 by allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) increases the ongoing activity of neurons and their evoked response to vibrissal stimulation, producing a positive gain modulation. The gain modulation is reversed by TRPA1 inhibitor HC-030031 and is absent in TRPA1 knockout mice. Similarly, in V1, TRPA1 activation increases the gain of direction and orientation selectivity. Linear decoding of V1 population activity confirms faster and more reliable encoding of visual signals under TRPA1 activation. Overall, our findings reveal a physiological role for TRPA1 in enhancing sensory signals in the mammalian cortex."	0
"32183942"	"N<sup>6</sup>-Deoxyadenosine Methylation in Mammalian Mitochondrial DNA.N<sup>6</sup>-Methyldeoxyadenosine (6mA) has recently been shown to exist and play regulatory roles in eukaryotic genomic DNA (gDNA). However, the biological functions of 6mA in mammals have yet to be adequately explored, largely due to its low abundance in most mammalian genomes. Here, we report that mammalian mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is enriched for 6mA. The level of 6mA in HepG2 mtDNA is at least 1,300-fold higher than that in gDNA under normal growth conditions, corresponding to approximately four 6mA modifications on each mtDNA molecule. METTL4, a putative mammalian methyltransferase, can mediate mtDNA 6mA methylation, which contributes to attenuated mtDNA transcription and a reduced mtDNA copy number. Mechanistically, the presence of 6mA could repress DNA binding and bending by mitochondrial transcription factor (TFAM). Under hypoxia, the 6mA level in mtDNA could be further elevated, suggesting regulatory roles for 6mA in mitochondrial stress response. Our study reveals DNA 6mA as a regulatory mark in mammalian mtDNA."	0
"30826165"	"Bispecific Forkhead Transcription Factor FoxN3 Recognizes Two Distinct Motifs with Different DNA Shapes.Transcription factors (TFs) control gene expression by binding DNA recognition sites in genomic regulatory regions. Although most forkhead TFs recognize a canonical forkhead (FKH) motif, RYAAAYA, some forkheads recognize a completely different (FHL) motif, GACGC. Bispecific forkhead proteins recognize both motifs, but the molecular basis for bispecific DNA recognition is not understood. We present co-crystal structures of the FoxN3 DNA binding domain bound to the FKH and FHL sites, respectively. FoxN3 adopts a similar conformation to recognize both motifs, making contacts with different DNA bases using the same amino acids. However, the DNA structure is different in the two complexes. These structures reveal how a single TF binds two unrelated DNA sequences and the importance of DNA shape in the mechanism of bispecific recognition."	0
"32649882"	"Tandem Deubiquitination and Acetylation of SPRTN Promotes DNA-Protein Crosslink Repair and Protects against Aging.DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are highly toxic DNA lesions that threaten genomic integrity. Recent findings highlight that SPRTN, a specialized DNA-dependent metalloprotease, is a central player in proteolytic cleavage of DPCs. Previous studies suggest that SPRTN deubiquitination is important for its chromatin association and activation. However, the regulation and consequences of SPRTN deubiquitination remain unclear. Here we report that, in response to DPC induction, the deubiquitinase VCPIP1/VCIP135 is phosphorylated and activated by ATM/ATR. VCPIP1, in turn, deubiquitinates SPRTN and promotes its chromatin relocalization. Deubiquitination of SPRTN is required for its subsequent acetylation, which promotes SPRTN relocation to the site of chromatin damage. Furthermore, Vcpip1 knockout mice are prone to genomic instability and premature aging. We propose a model where two sequential post-translational modifications (PTMs) regulate SPRTN chromatin accessibility to repair DPCs and maintain genomic stability and a healthy lifespan."	1
"32518155"	"The J-elongated conformation of β<sub>2</sub>-glycoprotein I predominates in solution: implications for our understanding of antiphospholipid syndrome.β<sub>2</sub>-Glycoprotein I (β<sub>2</sub>GPI) is an abundant plasma protein displaying phospholipid-binding properties. Because it binds phospholipids, it is a target of antiphospholipid antibodies (aPLs) in antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), a life-threatening autoimmune thrombotic disease. Indeed, aPLs prefer membrane-bound β<sub>2</sub>GPI to that in solution. β<sub>2</sub>GPI exists in two almost equally populated redox states: oxidized, in which all the disulfide bonds are formed, and reduced, in which one or more disulfide bonds are broken. Furthermore, β<sub>2</sub>GPI can adopt multiple conformations (<i>i.e.</i> J-elongated, S-twisted, and O-circular). While strong evidence indicates that the J-form is the structure bound to aPLs, which conformation exists and predominates in solution remains controversial, and so is the conformational pathway leading to the bound state. Here, we report that human recombinant β<sub>2</sub>GPI purified under native conditions is oxidized. Moreover, under physiological pH and salt concentrations, this oxidized form adopts a J-elongated, flexible conformation, not circular or twisted, in which the N-terminal domain I (DI) and the C-terminal domain V (DV) are exposed to the solvent. Consistent with this model, binding kinetics and mutagenesis experiments revealed that in solution the J-form interacts with negatively charged liposomes and with MBB2, a monoclonal anti-DI antibody that recapitulates most of the features of pathogenic aPLs. We conclude that the preferential binding of aPLs to phospholipid-bound β<sub>2</sub>GPI arises from the ability of its preexisting J-form to accumulate on the membranes, thereby offering an ideal environment for aPL binding. We propose that targeting the J-form of β<sub>2</sub>GPI provides a strategy to block pathogenic aPLs in APS."	0
"31995767"	"Immunological Fingerprints of Controllers Developing Neutralizing HIV-1 Antibodies.The induction of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) is highly desired for an effective vaccine against HIV-1. Typically, bnAbs develop in patients with high viremia, but they can also evolve in some untreated HIV-1 controllers with low viral loads. Here, we identify a subgroup of neutralizer-controllers characterized by myeloid DCs (mDCs) with a distinct inflammatory signature and a superior ability to prime T follicular helper (Tfh)-like cells in an STAT4-dependent fashion. This distinct immune profile is associated with a higher frequency of Tfh-like cells in peripheral blood (pTfh) and an enrichment for Tfh-defining genes in circulating CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells. Correspondingly, monocytes from this neutralizer controller subgroup upregulate genes encoding for chemotaxis and inflammation, and they secrete high levels of IL-12 in response to TLR stimulation. Our results suggest the existence of multi-compartment immune networks between mDCs, Tfh, and monocytes that may facilitate the development of bnAbs in a subgroup of HIV-1 controllers."	0
"32375048"	"Control of Adipocyte Thermogenesis and Lipogenesis through β3-Adrenergic and Thyroid Hormone Signal Integration.Here, we show that β adrenergic signaling coordinately upregulates de novo lipogenesis (DNL) and thermogenesis in subcutaneous white adipose tissue (sWAT), and both effects are blocked in mice lacking the cAMP-generating G protein-coupled receptor Gs (Adipo-GsαKO) in adipocytes. However, UCP1 expression but not DNL activation requires rapamycin-sensitive mTORC1. Furthermore, β3-adrenergic agonist CL316243 readily upregulates thermogenic but not lipogenic genes in cultured adipocytes, indicating that additional regulators must operate on DNL in sWAT in vivo. We identify one such factor as thyroid hormone T3, which is elevated locally by adrenergic signaling. T3 administration to wild-type mice enhances both thermogenesis and DNL in sWAT. Mechanistically, T3 action on UCP1 expression in sWAT depends upon cAMP and is blocked in Adipo-GsαKO mice even as elevated DNL persists. Thus, T3 enhances sWAT thermogenesis by amplifying cAMP signaling, while its control of adipocyte DNL can be mediated independently of both cAMP and rapamycin-sensitive mTORC1."	0
"32587090"	"The WD40-repeat protein WDR-48 promotes the stability of the deubiquitinating enzyme USP-46 by inhibiting its ubiquitination and degradation.Ubiquitination is a reversible post-translational modification that has emerged as a critical regulator of synapse development and function. However, the mechanisms that regulate the deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) responsible for the removal of ubiquitin from target proteins are poorly understood. We have previously shown that the DUB ubiquitin-specific protease 46 (USP-46) removes ubiquitin from the glutamate receptor GLR-1 and regulates its trafficking and degradation in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> We found that the WD40-repeat proteins WDR-20 and WDR-48 bind and stimulate the catalytic activity of USP-46. Here, we identified another mechanism by which WDR-48 regulates USP-46. We found that increased expression of WDR-48, but not WDR-20, promotes USP-46 abundance in mammalian cells in culture and in <i>C. elegans</i> neurons <i>in vivo</i> Inhibition of the proteasome increased USP-46 abundance, and this effect was nonadditive with increased WDR-48 expression. We found that USP-46 is ubiquitinated and that expression of WDR-48 reduces the levels of ubiquitin-USP-46 conjugates and increases the <i>t</i><sub>1/2</sub> of USP-46. A point-mutated WDR-48 variant that disrupts binding to USP-46 was unable to promote USP-46 abundance <i>in vivo</i> Finally, siRNA-mediated knockdown of <i>wdr48</i> destabilizes USP46 in mammalian cells. Together, these results support a model in which WDR-48 binds and stabilizes USP-46 protein levels by preventing the ubiquitination and degradation of USP-46 in the proteasome. Given that a large number of USPs interact with WDR proteins, we propose that stabilization of DUBs by their interacting WDR proteins may be a conserved and widely used mechanism that controls DUB availability and function."	1
"32348754"	"Netrin-G1 Regulates Microglial Accumulation along Axons and Supports the Survival of Layer V Neurons in the Postnatal Mouse Brain.Microglia, the resident immune cells of the central nervous system, accumulate along subcerebral projection axons and support neuronal survival during the early postnatal period. It remains unknown how microglia follow an axon-specific distribution pattern to maintain neural circuits. Here, we investigated the mechanisms of microglial accumulation along subcerebral projection axons that were necessary for microglial accumulation in the internal capsule. Screening of molecules involved in this accumulation of microglia to axons of layer V cortical neurons identified netrin-G1, a member of the netrin family of axon guidance molecules with a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchor. Deletion or knockdown of the netrin-G1 gene Ntng1 reduced microglial accumulation and caused loss of cortical neurons. Netrin-G1 ligand-Ngl1 knockout-mice-derived microglia showed reduced accumulation along the axons compared with wild-type microglia. Thus, microglia accumulate around the subcerebral projection axons via NGL1-netrin-G1 signaling and support neuronal survival. Our observations unveil bidirectional neurotrophic interactions between neurons and microglia."	0
"31831626"	"Control of noncoding RNA production and histone levels by a 5' tRNA fragment.Small RNAs derived from mature tRNAs, referred to as tRNA fragments or ""tRFs,"" are an emerging class of regulatory RNAs with poorly understood functions. We recently identified a role for one specific tRF-5' tRF-Gly-GCC, or tRF-GG-as a repressor of genes associated with the endogenous retroelement MERVL, but the mechanistic basis for this regulation was unknown. Here, we show that tRF-GG plays a role in production of a wide variety of noncoding RNAs-snoRNAs, scaRNAs, and snRNAs-that are dependent on Cajal bodies for stability and activity. Among these noncoding RNAs, regulation of the U7 snRNA by tRF-GG modulates heterochromatin-mediated transcriptional repression of MERVL elements by supporting an adequate supply of histone proteins. Importantly, the effects of inhibiting tRF-GG on histone mRNA levels, on activity of a histone 3' UTR reporter, and ultimately on MERVL regulation could all be suppressed by manipulating U7 RNA levels. We additionally show that the related RNA-binding proteins hnRNPF and hnRNPH bind directly to tRF-GG, and are required for Cajal body biogenesis, positioning these proteins as strong candidates for effectors of tRF-GG function in vivo. Together, our data reveal a conserved mechanism for 5' tRNA fragment control of noncoding RNA biogenesis and, consequently, global chromatin organization."	0
"31940487"	"Hippocampal Ripple Coordinates Retrosplenial Inhibitory Neurons during Slow-Wave Sleep.The hippocampus and retrosplenial cortex (RSC) play indispensable roles in memory formation, and importantly, a hippocampal oscillation known as ripple is key to consolidation of new memories. However, it remains unclear how the hippocampus and RSC communicate and the role of ripple oscillation in coordinating the activity between these two brain regions. Here, we record from the dorsal hippocampus and RSC simultaneously in freely behaving mice during sleep and reveal that the RSC displays a pre-ripple activation associated with slow and fast oscillations. Immediately after ripples, a subpopulation of RSC putative inhibitory neurons increases firing activity, while most RSC putative excitatory neurons decrease activity. Consistently, optogenetic stimulation of this hippocampus-RSC pathway activates and suppresses RSC putative inhibitory and excitatory neurons, respectively. These results suggest that the dorsal hippocampus mainly inhibits RSC activity via its direct innervation of RSC inhibitory neurons, which overshadows the RSC in supporting learning and memory functions."	0
"32698014"	"Tissue-Specific Regulation of the Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway by PAGE4 Inhibition of Tankyrase.Spatiotemporal control of Wnt/β-catenin signaling is critical for organism development and homeostasis. The poly-(ADP)-ribose polymerase Tankyrase (TNKS1) promotes Wnt/β-catenin signaling through PARylation-mediated degradation of AXIN1, a component of the β-catenin destruction complex. Although Wnt/β-catenin is a niche-restricted signaling program, tissue-specific factors that regulate TNKS1 are not known. Here, we report prostate-associated gene 4 (PAGE4) as a tissue-specific TNKS1 inhibitor that robustly represses canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling in human cells, zebrafish, and mice. Structural and biochemical studies reveal that PAGE4 acts as an optimal substrate decoy that potently hijacks substrate binding sites on TNKS1 to prevent AXIN1 PARylation and degradation. Consistently, transgenic expression of PAGE4 in mice phenocopies TNKS1 knockout. Physiologically, PAGE4 is selectively expressed in stromal prostate fibroblasts and functions to establish a proper Wnt/β-catenin signaling niche through suppression of autocrine signaling. Our findings reveal a non-canonical mechanism for TNKS1 inhibition that functions to establish tissue-specific control of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway."	1
"32433962"	"Pronuclear Microinjection during S-Phase Increases the Efficiency of CRISPR-Cas9-Assisted Knockin of Large DNA Donors in Mouse Zygotes.In CRISPR-Cas9-assisted knockin (KI) in zygotes, a remaining challenge is routinely achieving high-efficiency KI of large (kilobase-sized) DNA elements. Here, we focus on the timing of pronuclear injection and establish a reliable homologous recombination (HR)-based method to generate large KIs in zygotes compared with two other types of KI strategies involving distinct DNA repair pathways. At the ROSA26 locus, pronuclear injection with CRISPR RNA (crRNA), trans-activating crRNA (tracrRNA), and Cas9 protein at the S phase by using the HR-based method yields the most efficient and accurate KIs (up to 70%). This approach is also generally effective for generating large KI alleles at other gene loci. We further apply our method to efficiently obtain biallelic ROSA26 KIs by sequential injection into both pronuclei. Our results suggest that delivery of genome editing components and donor DNA into S-phase zygotes is critical for efficient KI of large DNA elements."	0
"31812350"	"Targeting UBE4A Revives Viperin Protein in Epithelium to Enhance Host Antiviral Defense.Mutation and prevalence of pathogenic viruses prompt the development of broad-spectrum antiviral strategies. Viperin is a potent antiviral protein that inhibits a broad range of viruses. Unexpectedly, we found that Viperin protein production in epithelium is defective in response to both viruses and interferons (IFNs). We further revealed that viruses and IFNs stimulate expression of the acetyltransferase HAT1, which induces Lys197-acetylation on Viperin. Viperin acetylation in turn recruits UBE4A that stimulates K6-linked polyubiquitination at Lys206 of Viperin, leading to Viperin protein degradation. Importantly, UBE4A deficiency restores Viperin protein production in epithelium. We then designed interfering peptides (IPs) to inhibit UBE4A binding with Viperin. We found that VIP-IP3 rescues Viperin protein production in epithelium and therefore enhances cellular antiviral activity. VIP-IP3 renders mice more resistant to viral infection. These findings could provide strategies for both enhancing host broad-spectrum antiviral response and improving the efficacy of IFN-based antiviral therapy."	1
"31784357"	"Native Chromatin Proteomics Reveals a Role for Specific Nucleoporins in Heterochromatin Organization and Maintenance.Spatially and functionally distinct domains of heterochromatin and euchromatin play important roles in the maintenance of chromosome stability and regulation of gene expression, but a comprehensive knowledge of their composition is lacking. Here, we develop a strategy for the isolation of native Schizosaccharomyces pombe heterochromatin and euchromatin fragments and analyze their composition by using quantitative mass spectrometry. The shared and euchromatin-specific proteomes contain proteins involved in DNA and chromatin metabolism and in transcription, respectively. The heterochromatin-specific proteome includes all proteins with known roles in heterochromatin formation and, in addition, is enriched for subsets of nucleoporins and inner nuclear membrane (INM) proteins, which associate with different chromatin domains. While the INM proteins are required for the integrity of the nucleolus, containing ribosomal DNA repeats, the nucleoporins are required for aggregation of heterochromatic foci and epigenetic inheritance. The results provide a comprehensive picture of heterochromatin-associated proteins and suggest a role for specific nucleoporins in heterochromatin function."	0
"32726623"	"Acetylation of UHRF1 Regulates Hemi-methylated DNA Binding and Maintenance of Genome-wide DNA Methylation.UHRF1 is a key regulator in DNA methylation maintenance. It binds histone H3K9me2/3 and hemi-methylated DNA and recruits DNMT1 to DNA replication forks during S phase. However, the regulatory mechanism of hemi-methylated DNA binding activity of UHRF1 remains unknown. In this study, we reveal that acetylation of UHRF1 is regulated by PCAF and HDAC1. We show that UHRF1 acetylation at K490 attenuates its binding affinity to hemi-methylated DNA. We analyze genome-wide DNA methylation and gene-expression patterns using stable cell lines and discover that cells where the endogenous UHRF1 is replaced with an acetyl-mimetic (UHRF1 K490Q) mutant show deficiencies in inherited DNA methylation and show different gene-expression patterns in genes related to cell survival. These results reveal that precise regulation of UHRF1 acetylation is required to maintain DNA methylation during cell division and control cell survival."	1
"31831627"	"Induction of AP-1 by YAP/TAZ contributes to cell proliferation and organ growth.Yes-associated protein (YAP) and its homolog transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) are key effectors of the Hippo pathway to control cell growth and organ size, of which dysregulation yields to tumorigenesis or hypertrophy. Upon activation, YAP/TAZ translocate into the nucleus and bind to TEAD transcription factors to promote transcriptional programs for proliferation or cell specification. Immediate early genes, represented by AP-1 complex, are rapidly induced and control later-phase transcriptional program to play key roles in tumorigenesis and organ maintenance. Here, we report that YAP/TAZ directly promote <i>FOS</i> transcription that in turn contributes to the biological function of YAP/TAZ. YAP/TAZ bind to the promoter region of <i>FOS</i> to stimulate its transcription. Deletion of YAP/TAZ blocks the induction of immediate early genes in response to mitogenic stimuli. <i>FOS</i> induction contributes to expression of YAP/TAZ downstream target genes. Genetic deletion or chemical inhibition of AP-1 suppresses growth of YAP-driven cancer cells, such as <i>Lats1/2</i>-deficient cancer cells as well as Gα<sub>q/11</sub> mutated uveal melanoma. Furthermore, AP-1 inhibition almost completely abrogates the hepatomegaly induced by YAP overexpression. Our findings reveal a feed-forward interplay between immediate early transcription of AP-1 and Hippo pathway function."	1
"32209481"	"c-Src Promotes Tumorigenesis and Tumor Progression by Activating PFKFB3.Reprogramming of glucose metabolism is a key event in tumorigenesis and progression. Here, we show that active c-Src stimulates glycolysis by phosphorylating (Tyr194) and activating PFKFB3, a key enzyme that boosts glycolysis by producing fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and activating PFK1. Increased glycolysis intermediates replenish non-oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) and serine pathway for biosynthesis of cancer cells. PFKFB3 knockout (KO) cells and their counterpart reconstituted with PFKFB3-Y194F show comparably impaired abilities for proliferation, migration, and xenograft formation. Furthermore, PFKFB3-Y194F knockin mice show impaired glycolysis and, mating of these mice with APC<sup>min/+</sup> mice attenuates spontaneous colon cancer formation in APC<sup>min/+</sup> mice. In summary, we identify a specific mechanism by which c-Src mediates glucose metabolism to meet cancer cells' requirements for maximal biosynthesis and proliferation. The PFKFB3-Tyr194 phosphorylation level highly correlates with c-Src activity in clinical tumor samples, indicating its potential as an evaluation for tumor prognosis."	1
"32209458"	"Multi-scale Predictions of Drug Resistance Epidemiology Identify Design Principles for Rational Drug Design.Rationally designing drugs that last longer in the face of biological evolution is a critical objective of drug discovery. However, this goal is thwarted by the diversity and stochasticity of evolutionary trajectories that drive uncertainty in the clinic. Although biophysical models can qualitatively predict whether a mutation causes resistance, they cannot quantitatively predict the relative abundance of resistance mutations in patient populations. We present stochastic, first-principle models that are parameterized on a large in vitro dataset and that accurately predict the epidemiological abundance of resistance mutations across multiple leukemia clinical trials. The ability to forecast resistance variants requires an understanding of their underlying mutation biases. Beyond leukemia, a meta-analysis across prostate cancer, breast cancer, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors suggests that resistance evolution in the adjuvant setting is influenced by mutational bias. Our analysis establishes a principle for rational drug design: when evolution favors the most probable mutant, so should drug design."	0
"31420216"	"Estrogen-Related Hormones Induce Apoptosis by Stabilizing Schlafen-12 Protein Turnover.The mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis is controlled by the ratio of anti- and pro-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins. The molecular events underlying how a given physiological stimulus changes this ratio to trigger apoptosis remains unclear. We report here that human 17-β-estradiol (E2) and its related steroid hormones induce apoptosis by binding directly to phosphodiesterase 3A, which in turn recruits and stabilizes an otherwise fast-turnover protein Schlafen 12 (SLFN12). The elevated SLFN12 binds to ribosomes to exclude the recruitment of signal recognition particles (SRPs), thereby blocking the continuous protein translation occurring on the endoplasmic reticulum of E2-treated cells. These proteins include Bcl-2 and Mcl-1, whose ensuing decrease triggers apoptosis. The SLFN12 protein and an apoptosis activation marker were co-localized in syncytiotrophoblast of human placentas, where levels of estrogen-related hormones are high, and dynamic cell turnover by apoptosis is critical for successful implantation and placenta development."	1
"32433973"	"Ubiquitylation of the ER-Shaping Protein Lunapark via the CRL3<sup>KLHL12</sup> Ubiquitin Ligase Complex.Cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) control key cellular processes by promoting ubiquitylation of a multitude of soluble cytosolic and nuclear proteins. Subsets of CRL complexes are recruited and activated locally at cellular membranes; however, few CRL functions and substrates at these distinct cellular compartments are known. Here, we use a proteomic screen to identify proteins that are ubiquitylated at cellular membranes and found that Lunapark, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-shaping protein localized to ER three-way junctions, is ubiquitylated by the CRL3<sup>KLHL12</sup> ubiquitin ligase. We demonstrate that Lunapark interacts with mechanistic target of rapamycin complex-1 (mTORC1), a central cellular regulator that coordinates growth and metabolism with environmental conditions. We show that mTORC1 binds Lunapark specifically at three-way junctions, and lysosomes, where mTORC1 is activated, make contact with three-way junctions where Lunapark resides. Inhibition of Lunapark ubiquitylation results in neurodevelopmental defects indicating that KLHL12-dependent ubiquitylation of Lunapark is required for normal growth and development."	1
"32115406"	"Critical roles of phosphoinositides and NF2 in Hippo pathway regulation.The Hippo pathway is a master regulator of tissue homeostasis and organ size. NF2 is a well-established tumor suppressor, and loss of NF2 severely compromises Hippo pathway activity. However, the precise mechanism of how NF2 mediates upstream signals to regulate the Hippo pathway is not clear. Here we report that, in mammalian cells, NF2's lipid-binding ability is critical for its function in activating the Hippo pathway in response to osmotic stress. Mechanistically, osmotic stress induces PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> plasma membrane enrichment by activating the PIP5K family, allowing for NF2 plasma membrane recruitment and subsequent downstream Hippo pathway activation. An NF2 mutant deficient in lipid binding is unable to activate the Hippo pathway in response to osmotic stress, as measured by LATS and YAP phosphorylation. Our findings identify the PIP5K family as novel regulators upstream of Hippo signaling, and uncover the importance of phosphoinositide dynamics, specifically PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>, in Hippo pathway regulation."	1
"30642763"	"The RNA-Binding Protein PUM2 Impairs Mitochondrial Dynamics and Mitophagy During Aging.Little information is available about how post-transcriptional mechanisms regulate the aging process. Here, we show that the RNA-binding protein Pumilio2 (PUM2), which is a translation repressor, is induced upon aging and acts as a negative regulator of lifespan and mitochondrial homeostasis. Multi-omics and cross-species analyses of PUM2 function show that it inhibits the translation of the mRNA encoding for the mitochondrial fission factor (Mff), thereby impairing mitochondrial fission and mitophagy. This mechanism is conserved in C. elegans by the PUM2 ortholog PUF-8. puf-8 knock-down in old nematodes and Pum2 CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout in the muscles of elderly mice enhances mitochondrial fission and mitophagy in both models, hence improving mitochondrial quality control and tissue homeostasis. Our data reveal how a PUM2-mediated layer of post-transcriptional regulation links altered Mff translation to mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy, thereby mediating age-related mitochondrial dysfunctions."	1
"31227230"	"An Atlas of Human Glycosylation Pathways Enables Display of the Human Glycome by Gene Engineered Cells.The structural diversity of glycans on cells-the glycome-is vast and complex to decipher. Glycan arrays display oligosaccharides and are used to report glycan hapten binding epitopes. Glycan arrays are limited resources and present saccharides without the context of other glycans and glycoconjugates. We used maps of glycosylation pathways to generate a library of isogenic HEK293 cells with combinatorially engineered glycosylation capacities designed to display and dissect the genetic, biosynthetic, and structural basis for glycan binding in a natural context. The cell-based glycan array is self-renewable and reports glycosyltransferase genes required (or blocking) for interactions through logical sequential biosynthetic steps, which is predictive of structural glycan features involved and provides instructions for synthesis, recombinant production, and genetic dissection strategies. Broad utility of the cell-based glycan array is demonstrated, and we uncover higher order binding of microbial adhesins to clustered patches of O-glycans organized by their presentation on proteins."	0
"32006464"	"Localized Inhibition of Protein Phosphatase 1 by NUAK1 Promotes Spliceosome Activity and Reveals a MYC-Sensitive Feedback Control of Transcription.Deregulated expression of MYC induces a dependence on the NUAK1 kinase, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this dependence have not been fully clarified. Here, we show that NUAK1 is a predominantly nuclear protein that associates with a network of nuclear protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) interactors and that PNUTS, a nuclear regulatory subunit of PP1, is phosphorylated by NUAK1. Both NUAK1 and PNUTS associate with the splicing machinery. Inhibition of NUAK1 abolishes chromatin association of PNUTS, reduces spliceosome activity, and suppresses nascent RNA synthesis. Activation of MYC does not bypass the requirement for NUAK1 for spliceosome activity but significantly attenuates transcription inhibition. Consequently, NUAK1 inhibition in MYC-transformed cells induces global accumulation of RNAPII both at the pause site and at the first exon-intron boundary but does not increase mRNA synthesis. We suggest that NUAK1 inhibition in the presence of deregulated MYC traps non-productive RNAPII because of the absence of correctly assembled spliceosomes."	1
"32231312"	"Chromatin replication and epigenetic cell memory.Propagation of the chromatin landscape across cell divisions is central to epigenetic cell memory. Mechanistic analysis of the interplay between DNA replication, the cell cycle, and the epigenome has provided insights into replication-coupled chromatin assembly and post-replicative chromatin maintenance. These breakthroughs are critical for defining how proliferation impacts the epigenome during cell identity changes in development and disease. Here we review these findings in the broader context of epigenetic inheritance across mitotic cell division."	0
"32541879"	"Neural metabolic imbalance induced by MOF dysfunction triggers pericyte activation and breakdown of vasculature.Mutations in chromatin-modifying complexes and metabolic enzymes commonly underlie complex human developmental syndromes affecting multiple organs. A major challenge is to determine how disease-causing genetic lesions cause deregulation of homeostasis in unique cell types. Here we show that neural-specific depletion of three members of the non-specific lethal (NSL) chromatin complex-Mof, Kansl2 or Kansl3-unexpectedly leads to severe vascular defects and brain haemorrhaging. Deregulation of the epigenetic landscape induced by the loss of the NSL complex in neural cells causes widespread metabolic defects, including an accumulation of free long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs). Free LCFAs induce a Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-NFκB-dependent pro-inflammatory signalling cascade in neighbouring vascular pericytes that is rescued by TLR4 inhibition. Pericytes display functional changes in response to LCFA-induced activation that result in vascular breakdown. Our work establishes that neurovascular function is determined by the neural metabolic environment."	0
"31919188"	"The chromatin remodeler Snf2h is essential for oocyte meiotic cell cycle progression.Oocytes are indispensable for mammalian life. Thus, it is important to understand how mature oocytes are generated. As a critical stage of oocytes development, meiosis has been extensively studied, yet how chromatin remodeling contributes to this process is largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor Snf2h (also known as Smarca5) plays a critical role in regulating meiotic cell cycle progression. Females with oocyte-specific depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> are infertile and oocytes lacking <i>Snf2h</i> fail to undergo meiotic resumption. Mechanistically, depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> results in dysregulation of meiosis-related genes, which causes failure of maturation-promoting factor (MPF) activation. ATAC-seq analysis in oocytes revealed that Snf2h regulates transcription of key meiotic genes, such as <i>Prkar2b</i>, by increasing its promoter chromatin accessibility. Thus, our studies not only demonstrate the importance of Snf2h in oocyte meiotic resumption, but also reveal the mechanism underlying how a chromatin remodeling factor can regulate oocyte meiosis."	1
"32905777"	"Hypoxia Triggers the Intravasation of Clustered Circulating Tumor Cells.Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are shed from solid cancers in the form of single or clustered cells, and the latter display an extraordinary ability to initiate metastasis. Yet, the biological phenomena that trigger the shedding of CTC clusters from a primary cancerous lesion are poorly understood. Here, when dynamically labeling breast cancer cells along cancer progression, we observe that the majority of CTC clusters are undergoing hypoxia, while single CTCs are largely normoxic. Strikingly, we find that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) targeting leads to primary tumor shrinkage, but it increases intra-tumor hypoxia, resulting in a higher CTC cluster shedding rate and metastasis formation. Conversely, pro-angiogenic treatment increases primary tumor size, yet it dramatically suppresses the formation of CTC clusters and metastasis. Thus, intra-tumor hypoxia leads to the formation of clustered CTCs with high metastatic ability, and a pro-angiogenic therapy suppresses metastasis formation through prevention of CTC cluster generation."	0
"30612879"	"The Crohn's Disease Risk Factor IRGM Limits NLRP3 Inflammasome Activation by Impeding Its Assembly and by Mediating Its Selective Autophagy.Several large-scale genome-wide association studies genetically linked IRGM to Crohn's disease and other inflammatory disorders in which the IRGM appears to have a protective function. However, the mechanism by which IRGM accomplishes this anti-inflammatory role remains unclear. Here, we reveal that IRGM/Irgm1 is a negative regulator of the NLRP3 inflammasome activation. We show that IRGM expression, which is increased by PAMPs, DAMPs, and microbes, can suppress the pro-inflammatory responses provoked by the same stimuli. IRGM/Irgm1 negatively regulates IL-1β maturation by suppressing the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. Mechanistically, we show that IRGM interacts with NLRP3 and ASC and hinders inflammasome assembly by blocking their oligomerization. Further, IRGM mediates selective autophagic degradation of NLRP3 and ASC. By suppressing inflammasome activation, IRGM/Irgm1 protects from pyroptosis and gut inflammation in a Crohn's disease experimental mouse model. This study for the first time identifies the mechanism by which IRGM is protective against inflammatory disorders."	1
"32587094"	"SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) structural and evolutionary dynamicome: Insights into functional evolution and human genomics.The pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has challenged the speed at which laboratories can discover the viral composition and study health outcomes. The small ∼30-kb ssRNA genome of coronaviruses makes them adept at cross-species spread while enabling a robust understanding of all of the proteins the viral genome encodes. We have employed protein modeling, molecular dynamics simulations, evolutionary mapping, and 3D printing to gain a full proteome- and dynamicome-level understanding of SARS-CoV-2. We established the Viral Integrated Structural Evolution Dynamic Database (VIStEDD at RRID:SCR_018793) to facilitate future discoveries and educational use. Here, we highlight the use of VIStEDD for nsp6, nucleocapsid (N), and spike (S) surface glycoprotein. For both nsp6 and N, we found highly conserved surface amino acids that likely drive protein-protein interactions. In characterizing viral S protein, we developed a quantitative dynamics cross-correlation matrix to gain insights into its interactions with the angiotensin I-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-solute carrier family 6 member 19 (SLC6A19) dimer. Using this quantitative matrix, we elucidated 47 potential functional missense variants from genomic databases within ACE2/SLC6A19/transmembrane serine protease 2 (TMPRSS2), warranting genomic enrichment analyses in SARS-CoV-2 patients. These variants had ultralow frequency but existed in males hemizygous for ACE2. Two ACE2 noncoding variants (rs4646118 and rs143185769) present in ∼9% of individuals of African descent may regulate ACE2 expression and may be associated with increased susceptibility of African Americans to SARS-CoV-2. We propose that this SARS-CoV-2 database may aid research into the ongoing pandemic."	0
"32354837"	"4E-T-bound mRNAs are stored in a silenced and deadenylated form.Human 4E-T is an eIF4E-binding protein (4E-BP) present in processing (P)-bodies that represses translation and regulates decay of mRNAs destabilized by AU-rich elements and microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we show that upon mRNA binding 4E-T represses translation and promotes deadenylation via the recruitment of the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. The interaction with CCR4-NOT is mediated by previously uncharacterized sites in the middle region of 4E-T. Importantly, mRNA decapping and decay are inhibited by 4E-T and the deadenylated target is stored in a repressed form. Inhibition of mRNA decapping requires the interaction of 4E-T with the cap-binding proteins eIF4E/4EHP. We further show that regulation of decapping by 4E-T participates in mRNA repression by the miRNA effector protein TNRC6B and that 4E-T overexpression interferes with tristetraprolin (TTP)- and NOT1-mediated mRNA decay. Thus, we postulate that 4E-T modulates 5'-to-3' decay by swapping the fate of a deadenylated mRNA from complete degradation to storage. Our results provide insight into the mechanism of mRNA storage that controls localized translation and mRNA stability in P-bodies."	1
"32937140"	"Endogenous Cyclin D1 Promotes the Rate of Onset and Magnitude of Mitogenic Signaling via Akt1 Ser473 Phosphorylation.Cyclin D1 encodes the regulatory subunit of a holoenzyme that phosphorylates RB and functions as a collaborative nuclear oncogene. The serine threonine kinase Akt plays a pivotal role in the control of cellular metabolism, survival, and mitogenic signaling. Herein, Akt1-mediated phosphorylation of downstream substrates in the mammary gland is reduced by cyclin D1 genetic deletion and is induced by mammary-gland-targeted cyclin D1 overexpression. Cyclin D1 is associated with Akt1 and augments the rate of onset and maximal cellular Akt1 activity induced by mitogens. Cyclin D1 is identified in a cytoplasmic-membrane-associated pool, and cytoplasmic-membrane-localized cyclin D1-but not nuclear-localized cyclin D1-recapitulates Akt1 transcriptional function. These studies identify a novel extranuclear function of cyclin D1 to enhance proliferative functions via augmenting Akt1 phosphorylation at Ser473."	1
"32726616"	"PHF7 Modulates BRDT Stability and Histone-to-Protamine Exchange during Spermiogenesis.Spermatogenesis is a complex process of sperm generation, including mitosis, meiosis, and spermiogenesis. During spermiogenesis, histones in post-meiotic spermatids are removed from chromatin and replaced by protamines. Although histone-to-protamine exchange is important for sperm nuclear condensation, the underlying regulatory mechanism is still poorly understood. Here, we identify PHD finger protein 7 (PHF7) as an E3 ubiquitin ligase for histone H3K14 in post-meiotic spermatids. Generation of Phf7-deficient mice and Phf7 C160A knockin mice with impaired E3 ubiquitin ligase activity reveals defects in histone-to-protamine exchange caused by dysregulation of histone removal factor Bromodomain, testis-specific (BRDT) in early condensing spermatids. Surprisingly, E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of PHF7 on histone ubiquitination leads to stabilization of BRDT by attenuating ubiquitination of BRDT. Collectively, our findings identify PHF7 as a critical factor for sperm chromatin condensation and contribute to mechanistic understanding of fundamental phenomenon of histone-to-protamine exchange and potential for drug development for the male reproduction system."	1
"32101746"	"Mechanism of Crosstalk between the LSD1 Demethylase and HDAC1 Deacetylase in the CoREST Complex.The transcriptional corepressor complex CoREST is one of seven histone deacetylase complexes that regulate the genome through controlling chromatin acetylation. The CoREST complex is unique in containing both histone demethylase and deacetylase enzymes, LSD1 and HDAC1, held together by the RCOR1 scaffold protein. To date, it has been assumed that the enzymes function independently within the complex. Now, we report the assembly of the ternary complex. Using both structural and functional studies, we show that the activity of the two enzymes is closely coupled and that the complex can exist in at least two distinct states with different kinetics. Electron microscopy of the complex reveals a bi-lobed structure with LSD1 and HDAC1 enzymes at opposite ends of the complex. The structure of CoREST in complex with a nucleosome reveals a mode of chromatin engagement that contrasts with previous models."	0
"31932164"	"Structure and Mechanism of a Cyclic Trinucleotide-Activated Bacterial Endonuclease Mediating Bacteriophage Immunity.Bacteria possess an array of defenses against foreign invaders, including a broadly distributed bacteriophage defense system termed CBASS (cyclic oligonucleotide-based anti-phage signaling system). In CBASS systems, a cGAS/DncV-like nucleotidyltransferase synthesizes cyclic di- or tri-nucleotide second messengers in response to infection, and these molecules activate diverse effectors to mediate bacteriophage immunity via abortive infection. Here, we show that the CBASS effector NucC is related to restriction enzymes but uniquely assembles into a homotrimer. Binding of NucC trimers to a cyclic tri-adenylate second messenger promotes assembly of a NucC homohexamer competent for non-specific double-strand DNA cleavage. In infected cells, NucC activation leads to complete destruction of the bacterial chromosome, causing cell death prior to completion of phage replication. In addition to CBASS systems, we identify NucC homologs in over 30 type III CRISPR/Cas systems, where they likely function as accessory nucleases activated by cyclic oligoadenylate second messengers synthesized by these systems' effector complexes."	0
"32023483"	"Genome-wide Screening Identifies SFMBT1 as an Oncogenic Driver in Cancer with VHL Loss.von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) is a critical tumor suppressor in clear cell renal cell carcinomas (ccRCCs). It is important to identify additional therapeutic targets in ccRCC downstream of VHL loss besides hypoxia-inducible factor 2α (HIF2α). By performing a genome-wide screen, we identified Scm-like with four malignant brain tumor domains 1 (SFMBT1) as a candidate pVHL target. SFMBT1 was considered to be a transcriptional repressor but its role in cancer remains unclear. ccRCC patients with VHL loss-of-function mutations displayed elevated SFMBT1 protein levels. SFMBT1 hydroxylation on Proline residue 651 by EglN1 mediated its ubiquitination and degradation governed by pVHL. Depletion of SFMBT1 abolished ccRCC cell proliferation in vitro and inhibited orthotopic tumor growth in vivo. Integrated analyses of ChIP-seq, RNA-seq, and patient prognosis identified sphingosine kinase 1 (SPHK1) as a key SFMBT1 target gene contributing to its oncogenic phenotype. Therefore, the pVHL-SFMBT1-SPHK1 axis serves as a potential therapeutic avenue for ccRCC."	1
"32402277"	"Nutrient-Driven O-GlcNAcylation Controls DNA Damage Repair Signaling and Stem/Progenitor Cell Homeostasis.Stem/progenitor cells exhibit high proliferation rates, elevated nutrient uptake, altered metabolic flux, and stress-induced genome instability. O-GlcNAcylation is an essential post-translational modification mediated by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) and O-GlcNAcase (OGA), which act in a nutrient- and stress-responsive manner. The precise role of O-GlcNAc in adult stem cells and the relationship between O-GlcNAc and the DNA damage response (DDR) is poorly understood. Here, we show that hyper-O-GlcNacylation leads to elevated insulin signaling, hyperproliferation, and DDR activation that mimic the glucose- and oxidative-stress-induced response. We discover a feedback mechanism involving key downstream effectors of DDR, ATM, ATR, and CHK1/2 that regulates OGT stability to promote O-GlcNAcylation and elevate DDR. This O-GlcNAc-dependent regulatory pathway is critical for maintaining gut homeostasis in Drosophila and the DDR in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Our findings reveal a conserved mechanistic link among O-GlcNAc cycling, stem cell self-renewal, and DDR with profound implications for stem-cell-derived diseases including cancer."	1
"31919189"	"Upon microbial challenge, human neutrophils undergo rapid changes in nuclear architecture and chromatin folding to orchestrate an immediate inflammatory gene program.Differentiating neutrophils undergo large-scale changes in nuclear morphology. How such alterations in structure are established and modulated upon exposure to microbial agents is largely unknown. Here, we found that prior to encounter with bacteria, an armamentarium of inflammatory genes was positioned in a transcriptionally passive environment suppressing premature transcriptional activation. Upon microbial exposure, however, human neutrophils rapidly (<3 h) repositioned the ensemble of proinflammatory genes toward the transcriptionally permissive compartment. We show that the repositioning of genes was closely associated with the swift recruitment of cohesin across the inflammatory enhancer landscape, permitting an immediate transcriptional response upon bacterial exposure. We found that activated enhancers, marked by increased deposition of H3K27Ac, were highly enriched for cistromic elements associated with PU.1, CEBPB, TFE3, JUN, and FOSL2 occupancy. These data reveal how upon microbial challenge the cohesin machinery is recruited to an activated enhancer repertoire to instruct changes in chromatin folding, nuclear architecture, and to activate an inflammatory gene program."	0
"32492433"	"Acute Myeloid Leukemia iPSCs Reveal a Role for RUNX1 in the Maintenance of Human Leukemia Stem Cells.Leukemia stem cells (LSCs) are believed to have more distinct vulnerabilities than the bulk acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells, but their rarity and the lack of universal markers for their prospective isolation hamper their study. We report that genetically clonal induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from an AML patient and characterized by exceptionally high engraftment potential give rise, upon hematopoietic differentiation, to a phenotypic hierarchy. Through fate-tracking experiments, xenotransplantation, and single-cell transcriptomics, we identify a cell fraction (iLSC) that can be isolated prospectively by means of adherent in vitro growth that resides on the apex of this hierarchy and fulfills the hallmark features of LSCs. Through integrative genomic studies of the iLSC transcriptome and chromatin landscape, we derive an LSC gene signature that predicts patient survival and uncovers a dependency of LSCs, across AML genotypes, on the RUNX1 transcription factor. These findings can empower efforts to therapeutically target AML LSCs."	0
"32234475"	"Divergent Roles for Macrophage C-type Lectin Receptors, Dectin-1 and Mannose Receptors, in the Intestinal Inflammatory Response.Colonic macrophages are considered to be major effectors of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) and the control of gut inflammation through C-type lectin receptors is an emerging concept. We show that during colitis, the loss of dectin-1 on myeloid cells prevents intestinal inflammation, while the lack of mannose receptor (MR) exacerbates it. A marked increase in dectin-1 expression in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-exposed MR-deficient mice supports the critical contribution of dectin-1 to colitis outcome. Dectin-1 is crucial for Ly6C<sup>high</sup>CCR2<sup>high</sup> monocyte population enrichment in the blood and their recruitment to inflamed colon as precursors of inflammatory macrophages. Dectin-1 also promotes inflammasome-dependent interleukin-1β (IL-1β) secretion through leukotriene B4 production. Interestingly, colonic inflammation is associated with a concomitant overexpression of dectin-1/CCL2/LTA4H and downregulation of MR on macrophages from IBD patients. Thus, MR and dectin-1 on macrophages are important mucosal inflammatory regulators that contribute to the intestinal inflammation."	0
"32023461"	"Wnt3a Stimulation Promotes Primary Ciliogenesis through β-Catenin Phosphorylation-Induced Reorganization of Centriolar Satellites.Primary cilium is an antenna-like microtubule-based cellular sensing structure. Abnormal regulation of the dynamic assembly and disassembly cycle of primary cilia is closely related to ciliopathy and cancer. The Wnt signaling pathway plays a major role in embryonic development and tissue homeostasis, and defects in Wnt signaling are associated with a variety of human diseases, including cancer. In this study, we provide direct evidence of Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis, which includes a continuous pathway showing that the stimulation of Wnt3a, a canonical Wnt ligand, promotes the generation of β-catenin p-S47 epitope by CK1δ, and these events lead to the reorganization of centriolar satellites resulting in primary ciliogenesis. We have also confirmed the application of our findings in MCF-7/ADR cells, a multidrug-resistant tumor cell model. Thus, our data provide a Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis pathway and may provide a clue on how to overcome multidrug resistance in cancer treatment."	1
"32859721"	"To cut or not to cut: New rules for proteolytic shedding of membrane proteins.Sheddases are specialized proteases that control the abundance and function of membrane proteins by cleaving their substrate's extracellular domain (ectodomain), a process known as shedding. Hundreds of shedding substrates have been identified, but little is known about the mechanisms that govern ectodomain shedding. Iwagishi <i>et al.</i> now report that negatively charged amino acids in the membrane-proximal juxtamembrane domain of substrates make them resistant to shedding by the metalloprotease ADAM17. These findings will help researchers better understand the regulation of shedding and may aid in the development of drugs targeting sheddases."	0
"32755570"	"The MARCH6-SQLE Axis Controls Endothelial Cholesterol Homeostasis and Angiogenic Sprouting.The endothelial monolayer forms a barrier between the lumen of blood vessels and the underlying tissues. Stable VE-cadherin-based adherens junctions are essential for maintaining this barrier, whereas their remodeling is required for angiogenesis in health and disease. Here, we position the ERAD-associated ubiquitin ligase MARCH6 as a determinant of angiogenic sprouting and barrier integrity through its ability to promote the degradation of the rate-limiting cholesterol biosynthetic enzyme squalene epoxidase (SQLE). Accordingly, MARCHF6 ablation in endothelial cells increases SQLE protein and cholesterol load. This leads to altered membrane order, disorganized adherens junctions, decreased endothelial barrier function, and impaired SQLE-dependent sprouting angiogenesis. Akin to MARCHF6 silencing, the overexpression of SQLE impairs angiogenesis. However, angiogenesis is also attenuated when SQLE is silenced, indicating that fine-tuning cholesterol biosynthesis is a determinant of healthy endothelial function. In summary, we propose a mechanistic link between regulation of cholesterol homeostasis by the MARCH6-SQLE axis and endothelial integrity and angiogenesis."	1
"32203418"	"RYBP/YAF2-PRC1 complexes and histone H1-dependent chromatin compaction mediate propagation of H2AK119ub1 during cell division.Stable propagation of epigenetic information is important for maintaining cell identity in multicellular organisms. However, it remains largely unknown how mono-ubiquitinated histone H2A on lysine 119 (H2AK119ub1) is established and stably propagated during cell division. In this study, we found that the proteins RYBP and YAF2 each specifically bind H2AK119ub1 to recruit the RYBP-PRC1 or YAF2-PRC1 complex to catalyse the ubiquitination of H2A on neighbouring nucleosomes through a positive-feedback model. Additionally, we demonstrated that histone H1-compacted chromatin enhances the distal propagation of H2AK119ub1, thereby reinforcing the inheritance of H2AK119ub1 during cell division. Moreover, we showed that either disruption of RYBP/YAF2-PRC1 activity or impairment of histone H1-dependent chromatin compaction resulted in a significant defect of the maintenance of H2AK119ub1. Therefore, our results suggest that histone H1-dependent chromatin compaction plays a critical role in the stable propagation of H2AK119ub1 by RYBP/YAF2-PRC1 during cell division."	0
"31914383"	"Dopamine Gates Visual Signals in Monkey Prefrontal Cortex Neurons.The neurotransmitter dopamine, which acts via the D1-like receptor (D1R) and D2-like receptor (D2R) family, may play an important role in gating sensory information to the prefrontal cortex (PFC). We tested this hypothesis in awake macaques and recorded visual motion-direction tuning functions of single PFC neurons. Using micro-iontophoretic drug application combined with single-unit recordings, we simulated receptor-specific dopaminergic input to the PFC and explored cellular gating mechanisms. We find that stimulating D1Rs, and particularly D2Rs, enhances the single-neuron and population coding quality in PFC neurons. D2R stimulation causes a clear increase of the neurons' responses to the preferred motion direction and a decrease to the non-preferred motion direction, thus enhancing neuronal signal-to-noise ratio. Neither D1R nor D2R stimulation had any impact on the neurons' tuning sharpness. These results elucidate the mechanisms of how receptor-specific dopamine effects can act as a gating signal that enables privileged access of sensory information to PFC circuits."	0
"32169162"	"Mec1 Is Activated at the Onset of Normal S Phase by Low-dNTP Pools Impeding DNA Replication.The Mec1 and Rad53 kinases play a central role during acute replication stress in budding yeast. They are also essential for viability in normal growth conditions, but the signal that activates the Mec1-Rad53 pathway in the absence of exogenous insults is currently unknown. Here, we show that this pathway is active at the onset of normal S phase because deoxyribonucleotide triphosphate (dNTP) levels present in G<sub>1</sub> phase may not be sufficient to support processive DNA synthesis and impede DNA replication. This activation can be suppressed experimentally by increasing dNTP levels in G<sub>1</sub> phase. Moreover, we show that unchallenged cells entering S phase in the absence of Rad53 undergo irreversible fork collapse and mitotic catastrophe. Together, these data indicate that cells use suboptimal dNTP pools to detect the onset of DNA replication and activate the Mec1-Rad53 pathway, which in turn maintains functional forks and triggers dNTP synthesis, allowing the completion of DNA replication."	0
"32402285"	"HNF4A and GATA6 Loss Reveals Therapeutically Actionable Subtypes in Pancreatic Cancer.Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) can be divided into transcriptomic subtypes with two broad lineages referred to as classical (pancreatic) and squamous. We find that these two subtypes are driven by distinct metabolic phenotypes. Loss of genes that drive endodermal lineage specification, HNF4A and GATA6, switch metabolic profiles from classical (pancreatic) to predominantly squamous, with glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) a key regulator of glycolysis. Pharmacological inhibition of GSK3β results in selective sensitivity in the squamous subtype; however, a subset of these squamous patient-derived cell lines (PDCLs) acquires rapid drug tolerance. Using chromatin accessibility maps, we demonstrate that the squamous subtype can be further classified using chromatin accessibility to predict responsiveness and tolerance to GSK3β inhibitors. Our findings demonstrate that distinct patterns of chromatin accessibility can be used to identify patient subgroups that are indistinguishable by gene expression profiles, highlighting the utility of chromatin-based biomarkers for patient selection in the treatment of PDAC."	0
"32160538"	"Genomic Repeats Categorize Genes with Distinct Functions for Orchestrated Regulation.Repetitive elements are abundantly distributed in mammalian genomes. Here, we reveal a striking association between repeat subtypes and gene function. SINE, L1, and low-complexity repeats demarcate distinct functional categories of genes and may dictate the time and level of gene expression by providing binding sites for different regulatory proteins. Importantly, imaging and sequencing analysis show that L1 repeats sequester a large set of genes with specialized functions in nucleolus- and lamina-associated inactive domains that are depleted of SINE repeats. In addition, L1 transcripts bind extensively to its DNA in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Depletion of L1 RNA in ESCs leads to relocation of L1-enriched chromosomal segments from inactive domains to the nuclear interior and de-repression of L1-associated genes. These results demonstrate a role of L1 DNA and RNA in gene silencing and suggest a general theme of genomic repeats in orchestrating the function, regulation, and expression of their host genes."	0
"32294430"	"Cdk4 and Cdk6 Couple the Cell-Cycle Machinery to Cell Growth via mTORC1.Cell growth is coupled to cell-cycle progression in mitotically proliferating mammalian cells, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. CyclinD-Cdk4/6 is known to phosphorylate RB to promote S-phase entry, but recent work suggests they have additional functions. We show here that CyclinD-Cdk4/6 activates mTORC1 by binding and phosphorylating TSC2 on Ser1217 and Ser1452. Pharmacological inhibition of Cdk4/6 leads to a rapid, TSC2-dependent reduction of mTORC1 activity in multiple human and mouse cell lines, including breast cancer cells. By simultaneously driving mTORC1 and E2F, CyclinD-Cdk4/6 couples cell growth to cell-cycle progression. Consistent with this, we see that mTORC1 activity is cell cycle dependent in proliferating neural stem cells of the adult rodent brain. We find that Cdk4/6 inhibition reduces cell proliferation partly via TSC2 and mTORC1. This is of clinical relevance, because Cdk4/6 inhibitors are used for breast cancer therapy."	1
"32690610"	"Highly conserved extracellular residues mediate interactions between pore-forming and regulatory subunits of the yeast Ca<sup>2+</sup> channel related to the animal VGCC/NALCN family.Yeasts and fungi generate Ca<sup>2+</sup> signals in response to environmental stresses through Ca<sup>2+</sup> channels essentially composed of Cch1 and Mid1. Cch1 is homologous to the pore-forming α<sub>1</sub> subunit of animal voltage-gated Ca<sup>2+</sup> channels (VGCCs) and sodium leak channels nonselective (NALCNs), whereas Mid1 is a membrane-associated protein similar to the regulatory α<sub>2</sub>/δ subunit of VGCCs and the regulatory subunit of NALCNs. Although the physiological roles of Cch1/Mid1 channels are known, their molecular regulation remains elusive, including subunit interactions regulating channel functionality. Herein, we identify amino acid residues involved in interactions between the pore-forming Cch1 subunit and the essential regulatory Mid1 subunit of <i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i><i>In vitro</i> mutagenesis followed by functional assays and co-immunoprecipitation experiments reveal that three residues present in a specific extracellular loop in the repeat III region of Cch1 are required for interaction with Mid1, and that one essential Mid1 residue is required for interaction with Cch1. Importantly, these residues are necessary for Ca<sup>2+</sup> channel activity and are highly conserved in fungal and animal counterparts. We discuss that this unique subunit interaction-based regulatory mechanism for Cch1 differs from that of VGCCs/NALCNs."	0
"32231305"	"Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency through Neo1 and Unc5b co-regulation of Wnt and MAPK signalling.In mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), chemical blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 (2i) instructs a self-renewing ground state whose endogenous inducers are unknown. Here we show that the axon guidance cue Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency by triggering profound signalling, transcriptomic and epigenetic changes in mESCs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Netrin-1 can substitute for blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 to sustain self-renewal of mESCs in combination with leukaemia inhibitory factor and regulates the formation of the mouse pluripotent blastocyst. Mechanistically, we reveal how Netrin-1 and the balance of its receptors Neo1 and Unc5B co-regulate Wnt and MAPK pathways in both mouse and human ESCs. Netrin-1 induces Fak kinase to inactivate Gsk3α/β and stabilize β-catenin while increasing the phosphatase activity of a Ppp2r2c-containing Pp2a complex to reduce Erk1/2 activity. Collectively, this work identifies Netrin-1 as a regulator of pluripotency and reveals that it mediates different effects in mESCs depending on its receptor dosage, opening perspectives for balancing self-renewal and lineage commitment."	1
"32348751"	"Pbrm1 Steers Mesenchymal Stromal Cell Osteolineage Differentiation by Integrating PBAF-Dependent Chromatin Remodeling and BMP/TGF-β Signaling.Bone morphogenic protein (BMP)/transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling determines mesenchymal-stromal-cell (MSC) osteolineage commitment and tissue identity. However, molecular integration of developmental signaling with MSC-intrinsic chromatin regulation remains incompletely understood. SWI/SNF-(BAF) is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler implicated in multi-cellular development. We show that BMPs and long-term osteogenic signals in MSCs selectively induce expression of polybromo BAF (PBAF) components Pbrm1, Arid2, and Brd7. Loss of Pbrm1/Arid2/Brd7 profoundly impairs osteolineage gene expression and osteogenesis without compromising adipogenesis. Pbrm1 loss attenuates MSC in vivo ossification. Mechanistically, Pbrm1/PBAF deficiency impairs Smad1/5/8 activation through locus-specific epi-genomic remodeling, involving Pbrm1 bromodomains, along with transcriptional downregulation of Bmpr/TgfβrII affecting BMP-early-responsive gene expression. Gain of function of BmprIβ, TgfβrII in PBAF-deficient MSCs partly restores Smad1/5/8 activation and osteogenesis. Pbrm1 loss further affects hematopoietic stem and progenitor activity through non-cell-autonomous regulation of microenvironment and niche-factor expression. Together, these findings reveal a link illustrating epi-genomic feedforward control of BMP/TGF-β signaling to transcriptional and cellular plasticity in the mesenchymal microenvironment and account for stromal-SWI/SNF in hematopoiesis."	1
"32610135"	"Zeb2 Is a Regulator of Astrogliosis and Functional Recovery after CNS Injury.The astrocytic response to injury is characterized on the cellular level, but our understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling the cellular processes is incomplete. The astrocytic response to injury is similar to wound-healing responses in non-neural tissues that involve epithelial-to-mesenchymal transitions (EMTs) and upregulation in ZEB transcription factors. Here we show that injury-induced astrogliosis increases EMT-related genes expression, including Zeb2, and long non-coding RNAs, including Zeb2os, which facilitates ZEB2 protein translation. In mouse models of either contusive spinal cord injury or transient ischemic stroke, the conditional knockout of Zeb2 in astrocytes attenuates astrogliosis, generates larger lesions, and delays the recovery of motor function. These findings reveal ZEB2 as an important regulator of the astrocytic response to injury and suggest that astrogliosis is an EMT-like process, which provides a conceptual connection for the molecular and cellular similarities between astrogliosis and wound-healing responses in non-neural tissue."	0
"30612880"	"Multisite Phosphorylation of S6K1 Directs a Kinase Phospho-code that Determines Substrate Selection.Multisite phosphorylation of kinases can induce on-off or graded regulation of catalytic activity; however, its influence on substrate specificity remains unclear. Here, we show that multisite phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) alters target selection. Agonist-inducible phosphorylation of glutamyl-prolyl tRNA synthetase (EPRS) by S6K1 in monocytes and adipocytes requires not only canonical phosphorylation at Thr<sup>389</sup> by mTORC1 but also phosphorylation at Ser<sup>424</sup> and Ser<sup>429</sup> in the C terminus by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). S6K1 phosphorylation at these additional sites induces a conformational switch and is essential for high-affinity binding and phosphorylation of EPRS, but not canonical S6K1 targets, e.g., ribosomal protein S6. Unbiased proteomic analysis identified additional targets phosphorylated by multisite phosphorylated S6K1 in insulin-stimulated adipocytes-namely, coenzyme A synthase, lipocalin 2, and cortactin. Thus, embedded within S6K1 is a target-selective kinase phospho-code that integrates signals from mTORC1 and Cdk5 to direct an insulin-stimulated, post-translational metabolon determining adipocyte lipid metabolism."	1
"32579914"	"NeuroD1 Dictates Tumor Cell Differentiation in Medulloblastoma.Tumor cells are characterized by unlimited proliferation and perturbed differentiation. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we demonstrate that tumor cells in medulloblastoma (MB) retain their capacity to differentiate in a similar way as their normal originating cells, cerebellar granule neuron precursors. Once they differentiate, MB cells permanently lose their proliferative capacity and tumorigenic potential. Differentiated MB cells highly express NeuroD1, a helix-loop-helix transcription factor, and forced expression of NeuroD1 promotes the differentiation of MB cells. The expression of NeuroD1 in bulk MB cells is repressed by trimethylation of histone 3 lysine-27 (H3K27me3). Inhibition of the histone lysine methyltransferase EZH2 prevents H3K27 trimethylation, resulting in increased NeuroD1 expression and enhanced differentiation in MB cells, which consequently reduces tumor growth. These studies reveal the mechanisms underlying MB cell differentiation and provide rationales to treat MB (potentially other malignancies) by stimulating tumor cell differentiation."	1
"32375036"	"Antagonistic Center-Surround Mechanisms for Direction Selectivity in the Retina.An antagonistic center-surround receptive field is a key feature in sensory processing, but how it contributes to specific computations such as direction selectivity is often unknown. Retinal On-starburst amacrine cells (SACs), which mediate direction selectivity in direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs), exhibit antagonistic receptive field organization: depolarizing to light increments and decrements in their center and surround, respectively. We find that a repetitive stimulation exhausts SAC center and enhances its surround and use it to study how center-surround responses contribute to direction selectivity. Center, but not surround, activation induces direction-selective responses in SACs. Nevertheless, both SAC center and surround elicited direction-selective responses in DSGCs, but to opposite directions. Physiological and modeling data suggest that the opposing direction selectivity can result from inverted temporal balance between excitation and inhibition in DSGCs, implying that SAC's response timing dictates direction selectivity. Our findings reveal antagonistic center-surround mechanisms for direction selectivity and demonstrate how context-dependent receptive field reorganization enables flexible computations."	0
"30472188"	"OTUB2 Promotes Cancer Metastasis via Hippo-Independent Activation of YAP and TAZ.The transcriptional regulators YAP and TAZ play important roles in development, physiology, and tumorigenesis and are negatively controlled by the Hippo pathway. It is yet unknown why the YAP/ TAZ proteins are frequently activated in human malignancies in which the Hippo pathway is still active. Here, by a gain-of-function cancer metastasis screen, we discovered OTUB2 as a cancer stemness and metastasis-promoting factor that deubiquitinates and activates YAP/TAZ. We found OTUB2 to be poly-SUMOylated on lysine 233, and this SUMOylation enables it to bind YAP/TAZ. We also identified a yet-unknown SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) in YAP and TAZ required for their association with SUMOylated OTUB2. Importantly, EGF and oncogenic KRAS induce OTUB2 poly-SUMOylation and thereby activate YAP/TAZ. Our results establish OTUB2 as an essential modulator of YAP/TAZ and also reveal a novel mechanism via which YAP/TAZ activity is induced by oncogenic KRAS."	1
"32703900"	"Regulation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 dynamics through multisite phosphorylation by GSK3.Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 (eIF6) is essential for the synthesis of 60S ribosomal subunits and for regulating the association of 60S and 40S subunits. A mechanistic understanding of how eIF6 modulates translation in response to stress, specifically starvation-induced stress, is lacking. We here show a novel mode of eIF6 regulation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) that is predominantly active in response to serum starvation. Both GSK3α and GSK3β phosphorylate human eIF6. Multiple residues in the C terminus of eIF6 are phosphorylated by GSK3 in a sequential manner. In response to serum starvation, eIF6 accumulates in the cytoplasm, and this altered localization depends on phosphorylation by GSK3. Disruption of eIF6 phosphorylation exacerbates the translation inhibitory response to serum starvation and stalls cell growth. These results suggest that eIF6 regulation by GSK3 contributes to the attenuation of global protein synthesis that is critical for adaptation to starvation-induced stress."	1
"32647011"	"The key royal jelly component 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid protects against bone loss by inhibiting NF-κB signaling downstream of FFAR4.The supplementation of royal jelly (RJ) is known to provide a variety of health benefits, including anti-inflammatory and anti-obesity effects. RJ treatment also reportedly protects against bone loss, but no single factor in RJ has yet been identified as an anti-osteoporosis agent. Here we fractionated RJ and identified 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid (10H2DA) as a key component involved in inhibiting osteoclastogenesis based on mass spectrometric analysis. We further demonstrated free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4) as directly interacting with 10H2DA; binding of 10H2DA to FFAR4 on osteoclasts inhibited receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) ligand (RANKL)-induced activation of NF-κB signaling, thereby attenuating the induction of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) c1, a key transcription factor for osteoclastogenesis. Oral administration of 10H2DA attenuated bone resorption in ovariectomized mice. These results suggest a potential therapeutic approach of targeting osteoclast differentiation by the supplementation of RJ, and specifically 10H2DA, in cases of pathological bone loss such as occur in postmenopausal osteoporosis."	1
"30878284"	"Apoptotic Caspases Suppress Type I Interferon Production via the Cleavage of cGAS, MAVS, and IRF3.Viral infection triggers host defenses through pattern-recognition receptor-mediated cytokine production, inflammasome activation, and apoptosis of the infected cells. Inflammasome-activated caspases are known to cleave cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS). Here, we found that apoptotic caspases are critically involved in regulating both DNA and RNA virus-triggered host defenses, in which activated caspase-3 cleaved cGAS, MAVS, and IRF3 to prevent cytokine overproduction. Caspase-3 was exclusively required in human cells, whereas caspase-7 was involved only in murine cells to inactivate cGAS, reflecting distinct regulatory mechanisms in different species. Caspase-mediated cGAS cleavage was enhanced in the presence of dsDNA. Alternative MAVS cleavage sites were used to ensure the inactivation of this critical protein. Elevated type I IFNs were detected in caspase-3-deficient cells without any infection. Casp3<sup>-/-</sup> mice consistently showed increased resistance to viral infection and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Our results demonstrate that apoptotic caspases control innate immunity and maintain immune homeostasis against viral infection."	1
"32699110"	"Quantitative propagation of assembled human Tau from Alzheimer's disease brain in microfluidic neuronal cultures.Tau aggregation and hyperphosphorylation is a key neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the temporospatial spread of Tau observed during clinical manifestation suggests that Tau pathology may spread along the axonal network and propagate between synaptically connected neurons. Here, we have developed a cellular model that allows the study of human AD-derived Tau propagation from neuron to neuron using microfluidic devices. We show by using high-content imaging techniques and an in-house developed interactive computer program that human AD-derived Tau seeds rodent Tau that propagates trans-neuronally in a quantifiable manner in a microfluidic culture model. Moreover, we were able to convert this model to a medium-throughput format allowing the user to handle 16 two-chamber devices simultaneously in the footprint of a standard 96-well plate. Furthermore, we show that a small molecule inhibitor of aggregation can block the trans-neuronal transfer of Tau aggregates, suggesting that the system can be used to evaluate mechanisms of Tau transfer and find therapeutic interventions."	0
"31377116"	"Early Scanning of Nascent Polypeptides inside the Ribosomal Tunnel by NAC.Cotranslational processing of newly synthesized proteins is fundamental for correct protein maturation. Protein biogenesis factors are thought to bind nascent polypeptides not before they exit the ribosomal tunnel. Here, we identify a nascent chain recognition mechanism deep inside the ribosomal tunnel by an essential eukaryotic cytosolic chaperone. The nascent polypeptide-associated complex (NAC) inserts the N-terminal tail of its β subunit (N-βNAC) into the ribosomal tunnel to sense substrates directly upon synthesis close to the peptidyl-transferase center. N-βNAC escorts the growing polypeptide to the cytosol and relocates to an alternate binding site on the ribosomal surface. Using C. elegans as an in vivo model, we demonstrate that the tunnel-probing activity of NAC is essential for organismal viability and critical to regulate endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein transport by controlling ribosome-Sec61 translocon interactions. Thus, eukaryotic protein maturation relies on the early sampling of nascent chains inside the ribosomal tunnel."	0
"32200794"	"Brain Translation: A Feather Tips the Scale.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Gonatopoulos-Pournatzis et al. (2020) report a neuron-specific microexon in eIF4G translation initiation factors that dampens synaptic protein translation. Autism-associated disruption of this exon results in increased protein production, likely through reduced coalescence with cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granule components, including FMRP."	0
"32807902"	"p27 controls Ragulator and mTOR activity in amino acid-deprived cells to regulate the autophagy-lysosomal pathway and coordinate cell cycle and cell growth.Autophagy is a catabolic process whereby cytoplasmic components are degraded within lysosomes, allowing cells to maintain energy homeostasis during nutrient depletion. Several studies reported that the CDK inhibitor p27<sup>Kip1</sup> promotes starvation-induced autophagy by an unknown mechanism. Here we find that p27 controls autophagy via an mTORC1-dependent mechanism in amino acid-deprived cells. During prolonged starvation, a fraction of p27 is recruited to lysosomes, where it interacts with LAMTOR1, a component of the Ragulator complex required for mTORC1 activation. Binding of p27 to LAMTOR1 prevents Ragulator assembly and mTORC1 activation, promoting autophagy. Conversely, p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells exhibit elevated mTORC1 signalling as well as impaired lysosomal activity and autophagy. This is associated with cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB, preventing induction of the lysosomal genes required for lysosome function. LAMTOR1 silencing or mTOR inhibition restores autophagy and induces apoptosis in p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Together, these results reveal a direct coordinated regulation between the cell cycle and cell growth machineries."	1
"31519521"	"SUMO-Chain-Regulated Proteasomal Degradation Timing Exemplified in DNA Replication Initiation.Similar to ubiquitin, SUMO forms chains, but the identity of SUMO-chain-modified factors and the purpose of this modification remain largely unknown. Here, we identify the budding yeast SUMO protease Ulp2, able to disassemble SUMO chains, as a DDK interactor enriched at replication origins that promotes DNA replication initiation. Replication-engaged DDK is SUMOylated on chromatin, becoming a degradation-prone substrate when Ulp2 no longer protects it against SUMO chain assembly. Specifically, SUMO chains channel DDK for SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase Slx5/Slx8-mediated and Cdc48 segregase-assisted proteasomal degradation. Importantly, the SUMOylation-defective ddk-KR mutant rescues inefficient replication onset and MCM activation in cells lacking Ulp2, suggesting that SUMO chains time DDK degradation. Using two unbiased proteomic approaches, we further identify subunits of the MCM helicase and other factors as SUMO-chain-modified degradation-prone substrates of Ulp2 and Slx5/Slx8. We thus propose SUMO-chain/Ulp2-protease-regulated proteasomal degradation as a mechanism that times the availability of functionally engaged SUMO-modified protein pools during replication and beyond."	1
"32460013"	"MKRN2 Physically Interacts with GLE1 to Regulate mRNA Export and Zebrafish Retinal Development.The mammalian mRNA nuclear export process is thought to terminate at the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex through ribonucleoprotein remodeling. We conduct a stringent affinity-purification mass-spectrometry-based screen of the physical interactions of human RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligases. The resulting protein-interaction network reveals interactions between the RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase MKRN2 and GLE1, a DEAD-box helicase activator implicated in mRNA export termination. We assess MKRN2 epistasis with GLE1 in a zebrafish model. Morpholino-mediated knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9-based knockout of MKRN2 partially rescue retinal developmental defects seen upon GLE1 depletion, consistent with a functional association between GLE1 and MKRN2. Using ribonomic approaches, we show that MKRN2 binds selectively to the 3' UTR of a diverse subset of mRNAs and that nuclear export of MKRN2-associated mRNAs is enhanced upon knockdown of MKRN2. Taken together, we suggest that MKRN2 interacts with GLE1 to selectively regulate mRNA nuclear export and retinal development."	1
"32521280"	"ELKS1 Captures Rab6-Marked Vesicular Cargo in Presynaptic Nerve Terminals.Neurons face unique transport challenges. They need to deliver cargo over long axonal distances and to many presynaptic nerve terminals. Rab GTPases are master regulators of vesicular traffic, but essential presynaptic Rabs have not been identified. Here, we find that Rab6, a Golgi-derived GTPase for constitutive secretion, associates with mobile axonal cargo and localizes to nerve terminals. ELKS1 is a stationary presynaptic protein with Golgin homology that binds to Rab6. Knockout and rescue experiments for ELKS1 and Rab6 establish that ELKS1 captures Rab6 cargo. The ELKS1-Rab6-capturing mechanism can be transferred to mitochondria by mistargeting ELKS1 or Rab6 to them. We conclude that nerve terminals have repurposed mechanisms from constitutive exocytosis for their highly regulated secretion. By employing Golgin-like mechanisms with anchored ELKS extending its coiled-coils to capture Rab6 cargo, they have spatially separated cargo capture from fusion. ELKS complexes connect to active zones and may mediate vesicle progression toward release sites."	1
"31901446"	"Su(var)2-10 and the SUMO Pathway Link piRNA-Guided Target Recognition to Chromatin Silencing.Regulation of transcription is the main mechanism responsible for precise control of gene expression. Whereas the majority of transcriptional regulation is mediated by DNA-binding transcription factors that bind to regulatory gene regions, an elegant alternative strategy employs small RNA guides, Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) to identify targets of transcriptional repression. Here, we show that in Drosophila the small ubiquitin-like protein SUMO and the SUMO E3 ligase Su(var)2-10 are required for piRNA-guided deposition of repressive chromatin marks and transcriptional silencing of piRNA targets. Su(var)2-10 links the piRNA-guided target recognition complex to the silencing effector by binding the piRNA/Piwi complex and inducing SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde histone methyltransferase effector. We propose that in Drosophila, the nuclear piRNA pathway has co-opted a conserved mechanism of SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde chromatin modifier to confer repression of genomic parasites."	1
"32783942"	"A Three-Way Combinatorial CRISPR Screen for Analyzing Interactions among Druggable Targets.We present a CRISPR-based multi-gene knockout screening system and toolkits for extensible assembly of barcoded high-order combinatorial guide RNA libraries en masse. We apply this system for systematically identifying not only pairwise but also three-way synergistic therapeutic target combinations and successfully validate double- and triple-combination regimens for suppression of cancer cell growth and protection against Parkinson's disease-associated toxicity. This system overcomes the practical challenges of experimenting on a large number of high-order genetic and drug combinations and can be applied to uncover the rare synergistic interactions between druggable targets."	0
"32234486"	"Structure-Based Design of Prefusion-Stabilized Filovirus Glycoprotein Trimers.Ebola virus causes severe hemorrhagic fever, often leading to death in humans. The trimeric fusion glycoprotein (GP) is the sole target for neutralizing antibodies and is the major focus of vaccine development. Soluble GP ectodomains are unstable and mostly monomeric when not fused to a heterologous trimerization domain. Here, we report structure-based designs of Ebola and Marburg GP trimers based on a stabilizing mutation in the hinge loop in refolding region 1 and substitution of a partially buried charge at the interface of the GP1 and GP2 subunits. The combined substitutions (T577P and K588F) substantially increased trimer expression for Ebola GP proteins. We determined the crystal structure of stabilized GP from the Makona Zaire ebolavirus strain without a trimerization domain or complexed ligand. The structure reveals that the stabilized GP adopts the same trimeric prefusion conformation, provides insight into triggering of GP conformational changes, and should inform future filovirus vaccine development."	0
"32937117"	"Adipocyte Reprogramming by the Transcriptional Coregulator GPS2 Impacts Beta Cell Insulin Secretion.Glucose homeostasis is maintained through organ crosstalk that regulates secretion of insulin to keep blood glucose levels within a physiological range. In type 2 diabetes, this coordinated response is altered, leading to a deregulation of beta cell function and inadequate insulin secretion. Reprogramming of white adipose tissue has a central role in this deregulation, but the critical regulatory components remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that expression of the transcriptional coregulator GPS2 in white adipose tissue is correlated with insulin secretion rate in humans. The causality of this relationship is confirmed using adipocyte-specific GPS2 knockout mice, in which inappropriate secretion of insulin promotes glucose intolerance. This phenotype is driven by adipose-tissue-secreted factors, which cause increased pancreatic islet inflammation and impaired beta cell function. Thus, our study suggests that, in mice and in humans, GPS2 controls the reprogramming of white adipocytes to influence pancreatic islet function and insulin secretion."	0
"31999954"	"Autism-Misregulated eIF4G Microexons Control Synaptic Translation and Higher Order Cognitive Functions.Microexons represent the most highly conserved class of alternative splicing, yet their functions are poorly understood. Here, we focus on closely related neuronal microexons overlapping prion-like domains in the translation initiation factors, eIF4G1 and eIF4G3, the splicing of which is activity dependent and frequently disrupted in autism. CRISPR-Cas9 deletion of these microexons selectively upregulates synaptic proteins that control neuronal activity and plasticity and further triggers a gene expression program mirroring that of activated neurons. Mice lacking the Eif4g1 microexon display social behavior, learning, and memory deficits, accompanied by altered hippocampal synaptic plasticity. We provide evidence that the eIF4G microexons function as a translational brake by causing ribosome stalling, through their propensity to promote the coalescence of cytoplasmic granule components associated with translation repression, including the fragile X mental retardation protein FMRP. The results thus reveal an autism-disrupted mechanism by which alternative splicing specializes neuronal translation to control higher order cognitive functioning."	0
"32905778"	"A WW Tandem-Mediated Dimerization Mode of SAV1 Essential for Hippo Signaling.The canonical mammalian Hippo pathway contains a core kinase signaling cascade requiring upstream MST to form a stable complex with SAV1 in order to phosphorylate the downstream LATS/MOB complex. Though SAV1 dimerization is essential for the trans-activation of MST, the molecular mechanism underlying SAV1 dimerization is unclear. Here, we discover that the SAV1 WW tandem containing a short Pro-rich extension immediately following the WW tandem (termed as ""WW12ex"") forms a highly stable homodimer. The crystal structure of SAV1 WW12ex reveals that the Pro-rich extension of one subunit binds to both WW domains from the other subunit. Thus, SAV1 WW12ex forms a domain-swapped dimer instead of a WW2 homodimerization-mediated dimer. The WW12ex-mediated dimerization of SAV1 is required for the MST/SAV1 complex assembly and MST kinase activation. Finally, we show that several cancer-related SAV1 variants disrupt SAV1 dimer formation, and thus, these mutations may impair the tumor-suppression activity of SAV1."	0
"30904392"	"Protein Kinase C Quality Control by Phosphatase PHLPP1 Unveils Loss-of-Function Mechanism in Cancer.Protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes function as tumor suppressors in increasing contexts. In contrast to oncogenic kinases, whose function is acutely regulated by transient phosphorylation, PKC is constitutively phosphorylated following biosynthesis to yield a stable, autoinhibited enzyme that is reversibly activated by second messengers. Here, we report that the phosphatase PHLPP1 opposes PKC phosphorylation during maturation, leading to the degradation of aberrantly active species that do not become autoinhibited. Cancer-associated hotspot mutations in the pseudosubstrate of PKCβ that impair autoinhibition result in dephosphorylated and unstable enzymes. Protein-level analysis reveals that PKCα is fully phosphorylated at the PHLPP site in over 5,000 patient tumors, with higher PKC levels correlating (1) inversely with PHLPP1 levels and (2) positively with improved survival in pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Thus, PHLPP1 provides a proofreading step that maintains the fidelity of PKC autoinhibition and reveals a prominent loss-of-function mechanism in cancer by suppressing the steady-state levels of PKC."	1
"31586547"	"γ-6-Phosphogluconolactone, a Byproduct of the Oxidative Pentose Phosphate Pathway, Contributes to AMPK Activation through Inhibition of PP2A.The oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (oxiPPP) contributes to cell metabolism through not only the production of metabolic intermediates and reductive NADPH but also inhibition of LKB1-AMPK signaling by ribulose-5-phosphate (Ru-5-P), the product of the third oxiPPP enzyme 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD). However, we found that knockdown of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), the first oxiPPP enzyme, did not affect AMPK activation despite decreased Ru-5-P and subsequent LKB1 activation, due to enhanced activity of PP2A, the upstream phosphatase of AMPK. In contrast, knockdown of 6PGD or 6-phosphogluconolactonase (PGLS), the second oxiPPP enzyme, reduced PP2A activity. Mechanistically, knockdown of G6PD or PGLS decreased or increased 6-phosphogluconolactone level, respectively, which enhanced the inhibitory phosphorylation of PP2A by Src. Furthermore, γ-6-phosphogluconolactone, an oxiPPP byproduct with unknown function generated through intramolecular rearrangement of δ-6-phosphogluconolactone, the only substrate of PGLS, bound to Src and enhanced PP2A recruitment. Together, oxiPPP regulates AMPK homeostasis by balancing the opposing LKB1 and PP2A."	1
"32580946"	"Muscarinic-dependent phosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor by protein kinase G is mediated by PI3K-AKT-nNOS signaling.Post-translational modifications of proteins involved in calcium handling in myocytes, such as the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2), critically regulate cardiac contractility. Recent studies have suggested that phosphorylation of RyR2 by protein kinase G (PKG) might contribute to the cardioprotective effects of cholinergic stimulation. However, the specific mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. Here, using murine ventricular myocytes, immunoblotting, proximity ligation as-says, and nitric oxide imaging, we report that phosphorylation of Ser-2808 in RyR2 induced by the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol is mediated by a signaling axis comprising phosphoinositide 3-phosphate kinase, Akt Ser/Thr kinase, nitric oxide synthase 1, nitric oxide, soluble guanylate cyclase, cyclic GMP (cGMP), and PKG. We found that this signaling pathway is compartmentalized in myocytes, as it was distinct from atrial natriuretic peptide receptor-cGMP-PKG-RyR2 Ser-2808 signaling and independent of muscarinic-induced phosphorylation of Ser-239 in vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein. These results provide detailed insights into muscarinic-induced PKG signaling and the mediators that regulate cardiac RyR2 phosphorylation critical for cardiovascular function."	1
"32139423"	"The adrenergic-induced ERK3 pathway drives lipolysis and suppresses energy dissipation.Obesity-induced diabetes affects >400 million people worldwide. Uncontrolled lipolysis (free fatty acid release from adipocytes) can contribute to diabetes and obesity. To identify future therapeutic avenues targeting this pathway, we performed a high-throughput screen and identified the extracellular-regulated kinase 3 (ERK3) as a hit. We demonstrated that β-adrenergic stimulation stabilizes ERK3, leading to the formation of a complex with the cofactor MAP kinase-activated protein kinase 5 (MK5), thereby driving lipolysis. Mechanistically, we identified a downstream target of the ERK3/MK5 pathway, the transcription factor FOXO1, which promotes the expression of the major lipolytic enzyme ATGL. Finally, we provide evidence that targeted deletion of ERK3 in mouse adipocytes inhibits lipolysis, but elevates energy dissipation, promoting lean phenotype and ameliorating diabetes. Thus, ERK3/MK5 represents a previously unrecognized signaling axis in adipose tissue and an attractive target for future therapies aiming to combat obesity-induced diabetes."	1
"32433965"	"Unbiased Identification of trans Regulators of ADAR and A-to-I RNA Editing.Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing is catalyzed by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) enzymes that deaminate adenosine to inosine. Although many RNA editing sites are known, few trans regulators have been identified. We perform BioID followed by mass spectrometry to identify trans regulators of ADAR1 and ADAR2 in HeLa and M17 neuroblastoma cells. We identify known and novel ADAR-interacting proteins. Using ENCODE data, we validate and characterize a subset of the novel interactors as global or site-specific RNA editing regulators. Our set of novel trans regulators includes all four members of the DZF-domain-containing family of proteins: ILF3, ILF2, STRBP, and ZFR. We show that these proteins interact with each ADAR and modulate RNA editing levels. We find ILF3 is a broadly influential negative regulator of editing. This work demonstrates the broad roles that RNA binding proteins play in regulating editing levels, and establishes DZF-domain-containing proteins as a group of highly influential RNA editing regulators."	1
"32747476"	"FoxA factors: the chromatin key and doorstop essential for liver development and function.Pioneer factors are transcriptional regulators with the capacity to bind inactive regions of chromatin and induce changes in accessibility that underpin cell fate decisions. The FOXA family of transcription factors is well understood to have pioneer capacity. Indeed, researchers have uncovered numerous examples of FOXA-dependent epigenomic modulation in developmental and disease processes. Despite the presence of FOXA being essential for correct epigenetic patterning, the need for continued FOXA presence postchromatin modulation has been debated. In a recent study in this issue of <i>Genes & Development</i>, Reizel and colleagues (pp. 1039-1050) show that the tissue-specific ablation of FOXA1/2/3 in the adult mouse liver results in the collapse of the epigenetic profile that maintains the hepatic gene expression profile. Thus, FOXA functions as a key, opening regions of chromatin during development, and as a doorstep, maintaining the established euchromatic structure in adult tissue."	0
"32451439"	"ROCK-mediated selective activation of PERK signalling causes fibroblast reprogramming and tumour progression through a CRELD2-dependent mechanism.It is well accepted that cancers co-opt the microenvironment for their growth. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie cancer-microenvironment interactions are still poorly defined. Here, we show that Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) in the mammary tumour epithelium selectively actuates protein-kinase-R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), causing the recruitment and persistent education of tumour-promoting cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which are part of the cancer microenvironment. An analysis of tumours from patients and mice reveals that cysteine-rich with EGF-like domains 2 (CRELD2) is the paracrine factor that underlies PERK-mediated CAF education downstream of ROCK. We find that CRELD2 is regulated by PERK-regulated ATF4, and depleting CRELD2 suppressed tumour progression, demonstrating that the paracrine ROCK-PERK-ATF4-CRELD2 axis promotes the progression of breast cancer, with implications for cancer therapy."	1
"32521278"	"Enhancer-Driven lncRNA BDNF-AS Induces Endocrine Resistance and Malignant Progression of Breast Cancer through the RNH1/TRIM21/mTOR Cascade.Epigenomic alterations can give rise to various tumor-promoting properties, including therapeutic resistance of cancer cells. Here, we identify an lncRNA, BDNF-AS, whose overexpression is specifically driven by a MEF2A-regulated enhancer in endocrine-resistant and triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). High levels of BDNF-AS in breast cancer tissues not only feature endocrine resistance in hormone receptor (HR)-positive patients but also correlate with poor outcomes in both HR-positive and TNBC patients. Mechanistically, BDNF-AS acts as a molecular scaffold to promote RNH1 protein degradation via TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination of RNH1 at K225. Subsequently, BDNF-AS abolishes RNH1-regulated and RISC-mediated mTOR mRNA decay, therefore sustaining the activation of mTOR signaling. Importantly, mTOR inhibitor, but not PI3K inhibitor, could reverse tamoxifen resistance induced by the overexpression of BDNF-AS. These results point toward a master regulatory role of an enhancer-activated cascade of BDNF-AS/RNH1/TRIM21/mTOR in endocrine resistance and malignant progression of breast cancer."	1
"30952515"	"Interleukin-1β Induces mtDNA Release to Activate Innate Immune Signaling via cGAS-STING.Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) is a pleiotropic mediator of inflammation and is produced in response to a wide range of stimuli. During infection, IL-1β production occurs in parallel with the onset of innate antimicrobial defenses, but the contribution of IL-1β signaling to cell-intrinsic immunity is not defined. Here, we report that exogenous IL-1β induces interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) activation in human myeloid, fibroblast, and epithelial cells. IRF3 activation by IL-1β is dependent upon the DNA-sensing pathway adaptor, stimulator of interferon genes (STING), through the recognition of cytosolic mtDNA by cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-AMP synthase (cGAS). IL-1β treatment results in interferon (IFN) production and activation of IFN signaling to direct a potent innate immune response that restricts dengue virus infection. This study identifies a new function for IL-1β in the onset or enhancement of cell-intrinsic immunity, with important implications for cGAS-STING in integrating inflammatory and microbial cues for host defense."	1
"31564558"	"Metabolic Diversity in Human Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Cells.Intermediary metabolism in cancer cells is regulated by diverse cell-autonomous processes, including signal transduction and gene expression patterns, arising from specific oncogenotypes and cell lineages. Although it is well established that metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer, we lack a full view of the diversity of metabolic programs in cancer cells and an unbiased assessment of the associations between metabolic pathway preferences and other cell-autonomous processes. Here, we quantified metabolic features, mostly from the <sup>13</sup>C enrichment of molecules from central carbon metabolism, in over 80 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines cultured under identical conditions. Because these cell lines were extensively annotated for oncogenotype, gene expression, protein expression, and therapeutic sensitivity, the resulting database enables the user to uncover new relationships between metabolism and these orthogonal processes."	0
"32571881"	"MtcB, a member of the MttB superfamily from the human gut acetogen <i>Eubacterium limosum</i>, is a cobalamin-dependent carnitine demethylase.The trimethylamine methyltransferase MttB is the first described member of a superfamily comprising thousands of microbial proteins. Most members of the MttB superfamily are encoded by genes that lack the codon for pyrrolysine characteristic of trimethylamine methyltransferases, raising questions about the activities of these proteins. The superfamily member MtcB is found in the human intestinal isolate <i>Eubacterium limosum</i> ATCC 8486, an acetogen that can grow by demethylation of l-carnitine. Here, we demonstrate that MtcB catalyzes l-carnitine demethylation. When growing on l-carnitine, <i>E. limosum</i> excreted the unusual biological product norcarnitine as well as acetate, butyrate, and caproate. Cellular extracts of <i>E. limosum</i> grown on l-carnitine, but not lactate, methylated cob-(I)alamin or tetrahydrofolate using l-carnitine as methyl donor. MtcB, along with the corrinoid protein MtqC and the methylcorrinoid:tetrahydrofolate methyltransferase MtqA, were much more abundant in <i>E. limosum</i> cells grown on l-carnitine than on lactate. Recombinant MtcB methylates either cob(I)alamin or Co(I)-MtqC in the presence of l-carnitine and, to a much lesser extent, γ-butyrobetaine. Other quaternary amines were not substrates. Recombinant MtcB, MtqC, and MtqA methylated tetrahydrofolate via l-carnitine, forming a key intermediate in the acetogenic Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. To our knowledge, MtcB methylation of cobalamin or Co(I)-MtqC represents the first described mechanism of biological l-carnitine demethylation. The conversion of l-carnitine and its derivative γ-butyrobetaine to trimethylamine by the gut microbiome has been linked to cardiovascular disease. The activities of MtcB and related proteins in <i>E. limosum</i> might demethylate proatherogenic quaternary amines and contribute to the perceived health benefits of this human gut symbiont."	0
"32101734"	"Predicting Successful Generation and Inhibition of Seizure-like Afterdischarges and Mapping Their Seizure Networks Using fMRI.To understand the conditions necessary to initiate and terminate seizures, we investigate optogenetically induced hippocampal seizures with LFP, fMRI, and optogenetic inhibition. During afterdischarge induction using optogenetics, LFP recordings show that stimulations with earlier ictal onset times are more likely to result in afterdischarges and are more difficult to curtail with optogenetic inhibition. These results are generalizable across two initiation sites, the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. fMRI shows that afterdischarges initiated from the dorsal or ventral hippocampus exhibit distinct networks. Short-duration seizures initiated in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus are unilateral and bilateral, respectively, while longer-duration afterdischarges recruit broader, bilateral networks. When optogenetic inhibition is ineffective at stopping seizures, the network activity spreads more extensively but largely overlaps with the network activity associated with seizures that could be curtailed. These results provide insights into how seizures can be inhibited, which has implications for targeted seizure interventions."	0
"32640215"	"Kinetic Heterogeneity of Cancer Cell Fractional Killing.Lethal drugs can induce incomplete cell death in a population of cancer cells, a phenomenon referred to as fractional killing. Here, we show that high-throughput population-level time-lapse imaging can be used to quantify fractional killing in response to hundreds of different drug treatments in parallel. We find that stable intermediate levels of fractional killing are uncommon, with many drug treatments resulting in complete or near-complete eradication of all cells, if given enough time. The kinetics of fractional killing over time vary substantially as a function of drug, drug dose, and genetic background. At the molecular level, the antiapoptotic protein MCL1 is an important determinant of the kinetics of fractional killing in response to MAPK pathway inhibitors but not other lethal stimuli. These studies suggest that fractional killing is governed by diverse lethal stimulus-specific mechanisms."	0
"32268106"	"T Cell Factor 1 Suppresses CD103+ Lung Tissue-Resident Memory T Cell Development.T cell factor 1 (Tcf1) promotes the central memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T (T<sub>CM</sub>) cell differentiation and stemness in lymphoid tissues after systemic infections. It remains unclear whether Tcf1 regulates the CD103<sup>high</sup> tissue-resident memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T (T<sub>RM</sub>) cell formation in non-lymphoid tissues after mucosal infections. We find that Tcf1 is progressively decreased during lung T<sub>RM</sub> cell formation. Abrogation of transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling is associated with a loss of CD103<sup>+</sup> and reciprocal gain of Tcf1<sup>+</sup> cells among T<sub>RM</sub> precursors in vivo. T-cell-specific ablation of Tcf7 enhances CD103 protein expression in T<sub>RM</sub> cells and precursors and increases T<sub>RM</sub> cell numbers after primary and secondary infections. Tcf1 directly binds to the Itgae (encoding CD103) locus and partly inhibits TGF-β-induced CD103 expression. Our study suggests that memory T cell tissue residency and homeostatic proliferation are reciprocally regulated by Tcf1. Tcf1 may play either immunosupportive or immunosuppressive roles in CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, depending on systemic or mucosal infections."	1
"32187535"	"Morphine and Naloxone Facilitate Neural Stem Cells Proliferation via a TET1-Dependent and Receptor-Independent Pathway.Normally, opioids function in a receptor-dependent manner. They bind to opioid receptors, activate or inhibit receptor activation, and subsequently modulate downstream signal transduction. However, the complex functions of opioids and the low expression of opioid receptors and their endogenous peptide agonists in neural stem cells (NSCs) suggest that some opioids may also modulate NSCs via a receptor-independent pathway. In the current study, two opioids, morphine and naloxone, are demonstrated to facilitate NSC proliferation via a receptor-independent and ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1)-dependent pathway. Morphine and naloxone penetrate cell membrane, bind to TET1 protein via three key residues (1,880-1,882), and subsequently result in facilitated proliferation of NSCs. In addition, the two opioids also inhibit the DNA demethylation ability of TET1. In summary, the current results connect opioids and DNA demethylation directly at least in NSCs and extend our understanding on both opioids and NSCs."	1
"31968257"	"Trypanosoma brucei ATR Links DNA Damage Signaling during Antigenic Variation with Regulation of RNA Polymerase I-Transcribed Surface Antigens.Trypanosoma brucei evades mammalian immunity by using recombination to switch its surface-expressed variant surface glycoprotein (VSG), while ensuring that only one of many subtelomeric multigene VSG expression sites are transcribed at a time. DNA repair activities have been implicated in the catalysis of VSG switching by recombination, not transcriptional control. How VSG switching is signaled to guide the appropriate reaction or to integrate switching into parasite growth is unknown. Here, we show that the loss of ATR, a DNA damage-signaling protein kinase, is lethal, causing nuclear genome instability and increased VSG switching through VSG-localized damage. Furthermore, ATR loss leads to the increased transcription of silent VSG expression sites and expression of mixed VSGs on the cell surface, effects that are associated with the altered localization of RNA polymerase I and VEX1. This work shows that ATR acts in antigenic variation both through DNA damage signaling and surface antigen expression control."	0
"32554467"	"The RAS-interacting chaperone UNC119 drives the RASSF6-MDM2-p53 axis and antagonizes RAS-mediated malignant transformation.The gene encoding the proto-oncogene GTPase RAS is frequently mutated in human cancers. Mutated RAS proteins trigger antiapoptotic and cell-proliferative signals and lead to oncogenesis. However, RAS also induces apoptosis and senescence, which may contribute to the eradication of cells with RAS mutations. We previously reported that Ras association domain family member 6 (RASSF6) binds MDM2 and stabilizes the tumor suppressor p53 and that the active form of KRAS promotes the interaction between RASSF6 and MDM2. We also reported that Unc-119 lipid-binding chaperone (UNC119A), a chaperone of myristoylated proteins, interacts with RASSF6 and regulates RASSF6-mediated apoptosis. In this study, using several human cancer cell lines, quantitative RT-PCR, RNAi-based gene silencing, and immunoprecipitation/-fluorescence and cell biology assays, we report that UNC119A interacts with the active form of KRAS and that the C-terminal modification of KRAS is required for this interaction. We also noted that the hydrophobic pocket of UNC119A, which binds the myristoylated peptides, is not involved in the interaction. We observed that UNC119A promotes the binding of KRAS to RASSF6, enhances the interaction between RASSF6 and MDM2, and induces apoptosis. Conversely, <i>UNC119A</i> silencing promoted soft-agar colony formation, migration, and invasiveness in KRAS-mutated cancer cells. We conclude that UNC119A promotes KRAS-mediated p53-dependent apoptosis via RASSF6 and may play a tumor-suppressive role in cells with KRAS mutations."	1
"32023451"	"A Positive Feedback Loop of TET3 and TGF-β1 Promotes Liver Fibrosis.Pathological activation of TGF-β signaling is universal in fibrosis. Aberrant TGF-β signaling in conjunction with transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) into fibrogenic myofibroblasts plays a central role in liver fibrosis. Here we report that the DNA demethylase TET3 is anomalously upregulated in fibrotic livers in both humans and mice. We demonstrate that in human HSCs, TET3 promotes profibrotic gene expression by upregulation of multiple key TGF-β pathway genes, including TGFB1. TET3 binds to target gene promoters, inducing demethylation, which in turn facilitates chromatin remodeling and transcription. We also reveal a positive feedback loop between TGF-β1 and TET3 in both HSCs and hepatocytes. Furthermore, TET3 knockdown ameliorates liver fibrosis in mice. Our results uncover a TET3/TGF-β1 positive feedback loop as a crucial determinant of liver fibrosis and suggest that inhibiting TET3 may represent a therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis and perhaps other fibrotic diseases."	1
"32726619"	"Proximal Tubule mTORC1 Is a Central Player in the Pathophysiology of Diabetic Nephropathy and Its Correction by SGLT2 Inhibitors.Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) increases the risk for mortality and is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease. Treatment with sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) attenuates the progression of DKD, especially in patients with advanced kidney disease. Herein, we show that in diabetes, mTORC1 activity is increased in renal proximal tubule cells (RPTCs) along with enhanced tubule-interstitial fibrosis; this is prevented by SGLT2i. Constitutive activation of mTORC1 in RPTCs induces renal fibrosis and failure and abolishes the renal-protective effects of SGLT2i in diabetes. On the contrary, partial inhibition of mTORC1 in RPTCs prevents fibrosis and the decline in renal function. Stimulation of mTORC1 in RPTCs turns on a pro-fibrotic program in the renal cortex, whereas its inhibition in diabetes reverses the alterations in gene expression. We suggest that RPTC mTORC1 is a critical node that mediates kidney dysfunction in diabetes and the protective effects of SGLT2i by regulating fibrogenesis."	0
"31914387"	"Differential Coupling of Adult-Born Granule Cells to Parvalbumin and Somatostatin Interneurons.A strong GABAergic tone imposes sparse levels of activity in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. This balance is challenged by the addition of new granule cells (GCs) with high excitability. How developing GCs integrate within local inhibitory networks remains unknown. We used optogenetics to study synaptogenesis between new GCs and GABAergic interneurons expressing parvalbumin (PV-INs) and somatostatin (SST-INs). PV-INs target the soma, and synapses become mature after 6 weeks. This transition is accelerated by exposure to an enriched environment. PV-INs exert efficient control of GC spiking and participate in both feedforward and feedback loops, a mechanism that would favor lateral inhibition and sparse coding. SST-INs target the dendrites, and synapses mature after 8 weeks. Outputs from GCs onto PV-INs develop faster than those onto SST-INs. Our results reveal a long-lasting transition wherein adult-born neurons remain poorly coupled to inhibition, which might enhance activity-dependent plasticity of input and output synapses."	0
"32402271"	"The Histone Methyltransferase G9a Controls Axon Growth by Targeting the RhoA Signaling Pathway.The generation of axonal and dendritic domains is critical for brain circuitry assembly and physiology. Negative players, such as the RhoA-Rho coiled-coil-associated protein kinase (ROCK) signaling pathway, restrain axon development and polarization. Surprisingly, the genetic control of neuronal polarity has remained largely unexplored. Here, we report that, in primary cultured neurons, expression of the histone methyltransferase G9a and nuclear translocation of its major splicing isoform (G9a/E10+) peak at the time of axon formation. RNAi suppression of G9a/E10+ or pharmacological blockade of G9a constrains neuronal migration, axon initiation, and the establishment of neuronal polarity in situ and in vitro. Inhibition of G9a function upregulates RhoA-ROCK activity by increasing the expression of Lfc, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA. Together, these results identify G9a as a player in neuronal polarization."	1
"32402289"	"Foxo3 Promotes the Differentiation and Function of Follicular Helper T Cells.Follicular helper T cells (Tfhs) are essential for germinal center (GC) B cell maturation and antibody development. However, the intrinsic mechanisms that regulate Tfh differentiation are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the frequencies of Tfhs and GC B cells, as well as interleukin-21 (IL-21) and anti-ovalbumin (OVA) antibodies, are markedly decreased in forkhead box O3 (Foxo3) knockout mice immunized with OVA. Using mixed bone marrow chimeras and lymphocyte-repopulated Rag1<sup>-/-</sup> mice proves that wild-type (WT), but not Foxo3-deficient T cells provoke GC B cell maturation and antibody production. Deficiency of Foxo3 inhibits inducible T cell co-stimulator (ICOS)-induced Tfh differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay results suggest that Foxo3 is able to bind to the IL-21 promoter and regulate IL-21 secretion. In conclusion, our study unveils a critical role of Foxo3 in the regulation of Tfh differentiation and IL-21 production. Modulating Foxo3 activity may be beneficial for enhancing or preventing antibody-mediated immune responses."	1
"32160557"	"Multi-omics Analysis of the Intermittent Fasting Response in Mice Identifies an Unexpected Role for HNF4α.Every-other-day fasting (EODF) is an effective intervention for the treatment of metabolic disease, including improvements in liver health. But how the liver proteome is reprogrammed by EODF is currently unknown. Here, we use EODF in mice and multi-omics analysis to identify regulated pathways. Many changes in the liver proteome are distinct after EODF and absent after a single fasting bout. Key among these is the simultaneous induction by EODF of de novo lipogenesis and fatty acid oxidation enzymes. Together with activation of oxidative stress defenses, this contributes to the improvements in glucose tolerance and lifespan after EODF. Enrichment analysis shows unexpected downregulation of HNF4α targets by EODF, and we confirm HNF4α inhibition. Suppressed HNF4α targets include bile synthetic enzymes and secreted proteins, such as α1-antitrypsin or inflammatory factors, which reflect EODF phenotypes. Interactive online access is provided to a data resource (https://www.larancelab.com/eodf), which provides a global view of fasting-induced mechanisms in mice."	0
"31445886"	"Regulation of Co-transcriptional Pre-mRNA Splicing by m<sup>6</sup>A through the Low-Complexity Protein hnRNPG.N<sup>6</sup>-methyladenosine (m<sup>6</sup>A) modification occurs co-transcriptionally and impacts pre-mRNA processing; however, the mechanism of co-transcriptional m<sup>6</sup>A-dependent alternative splicing regulation is still poorly understood. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein G (hnRNPG) is an m<sup>6</sup>A reader protein that binds RNA through RRM and Arg-Gly-Gly (RGG) motifs. Here, we show that hnRNPG directly binds to the phosphorylated carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) using RGG motifs in its low-complexity region. Through interactions with the phosphorylated CTD and nascent RNA, hnRNPG associates co-transcriptionally with RNAPII and regulates alternative splicing transcriptome-wide. m<sup>6</sup>A near splice sites in nascent pre-mRNA modulates hnRNPG binding, which influences RNAPII occupancy patterns and promotes exon inclusion. Our results reveal an integrated mechanism of co-transcriptional m<sup>6</sup>A-mediated splicing regulation, in which an m<sup>6</sup>A reader protein uses RGG motifs to co-transcriptionally interact with both RNAPII and m<sup>6</sup>A-modified nascent pre-mRNA to modulate RNAPII occupancy and alternative splicing."	0
"31402097"	"Osh Proteins Control Nanoscale Lipid Organization Necessary for PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> Synthesis.The plasma membrane (PM) is composed of a complex lipid mixture that forms heterogeneous membrane environments. Yet, how small-scale lipid organization controls physiological events at the PM remains largely unknown. Here, we show that ORP-related Osh lipid exchange proteins are critical for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>], a key regulator of dynamic events at the PM. In real-time assays, we find that unsaturated phosphatidylserine (PS) and sterols, both Osh protein ligands, synergistically stimulate phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) activity. Biophysical FRET analyses suggest an unconventional co-distribution of unsaturated PS and phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) species in sterol-containing membrane bilayers. Moreover, using in vivo imaging approaches and molecular dynamics simulations, we show that Osh protein-mediated unsaturated PI4P and PS membrane lipid organization is sensed by the PIP5K specificity loop. Thus, ORP family members create a nanoscale membrane lipid environment that drives PIP5K activity and PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> synthesis that ultimately controls global PM organization and dynamics."	1
"32049020"	"B Cell Diversification Is Uncoupled from SAP-Mediated Selection Forces in Chronic Germinal Centers within Peyer's Patches.Antibodies secreted within the intestinal tract provide protection from the invasion of microbes into the host tissues. Germinal center (GC) formation in lymph nodes and spleen strictly requires SLAM-associated protein (SAP)-mediated T cell functions; however, it is not known whether this mechanism plays a similar role in mucosal-associated lymphoid tissues. Here, we find that in Peyer's patches (PPs), SAP-mediated T cell help is required for promoting B cell selection in GCs, but not for clonal diversification. PPs of SAP-deficient mice host chronic GCs that are absent in T cell-deficient mice. GC B cells in SAP-deficient mice express AID and Bcl6 and generate plasma cells in proportion to the GC size. Single-cell IgA sequencing analysis reveals that these mice host few diversified clones that were subjected to mild selection forces. These findings demonstrate that T cell-derived help to B cells in PPs includes SAP-dependent and SAP-independent functions."	0
"32029453"	"Nuclear PARPs and genome integrity.Effective maintenance and stability of our genomes is essential for normal cell division, tissue homeostasis, and cellular and organismal fitness. The processes of chromosome replication and segregation require continual surveillance to insure fidelity. Accurate and efficient repair of DNA damage preserves genome integrity, which if lost can lead to multiple diseases, including cancer. Poly(ADP-ribose) a dynamic and reversible posttranslational modification and the enzymes that catalyze it (PARP1, PARP2, tankyrase 1, and tankyrase 2) function to maintain genome stability through diverse mechanisms. Here we review the role of these enzymes and the modification in genome repair, replication, and resolution in human cells."	0
"32492419"	"A Dynamic Splicing Program Ensures Proper Synaptic Connections in the Developing Cerebellum.Tight coordination of gene expression in the developing cerebellum is crucial for establishment of neuronal circuits governing motor and cognitive function. However, transcriptional changes alone do not explain all of the switches underlying neuronal differentiation. Here we unveiled a widespread and highly dynamic splicing program that affects synaptic genes in cerebellar neurons. The motifs enriched in modulated exons implicated the splicing factor Sam68 as a regulator of this program. Sam68 controls splicing of exons with weak branchpoints by directly binding near the 3' splice site and competing with U2AF recruitment. Ablation of Sam68 disrupts splicing regulation of synaptic genes associated with neurodevelopmental diseases and impairs synaptic connections and firing of Purkinje cells, resulting in motor coordination defects, ataxia, and abnormal social behavior. These findings uncover an unexpectedly dynamic splicing regulatory network that shapes the synapse in early life and establishes motor and cognitive circuitry in the developing cerebellum."	0
"31563432"	"Mediator Condensates Localize Signaling Factors to Key Cell Identity Genes.The gene expression programs that define the identity of each cell are controlled by master transcription factors (TFs) that bind cell-type-specific enhancers, as well as signaling factors, which bring extracellular stimuli to these enhancers. Recent studies have revealed that master TFs form phase-separated condensates with the Mediator coactivator at super-enhancers. Here, we present evidence that signaling factors for the WNT, TGF-β, and JAK/STAT pathways use their intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) to enter and concentrate in Mediator condensates at super-enhancers. We show that the WNT coactivator β-catenin interacts both with components of condensates and DNA-binding factors to selectively occupy super-enhancer-associated genes. We propose that the cell-type specificity of the response to signaling is mediated in part by the IDRs of the signaling factors, which cause these factors to partition into condensates established by the master TFs and Mediator at genes with prominent roles in cell identity."	0
"32348752"	"The Mitochondrial Import Complex MIM Functions as Main Translocase for α-Helical Outer Membrane Proteins.The mitochondrial outer membrane contains integral proteins with α-helical membrane anchors or a transmembrane β-barrel. The translocase of the outer membrane (TOM) cooperates with the sorting and assembly machinery (SAM) in the import of β-barrel proteins, whereas the mitochondrial import (MIM) complex inserts precursors of multi-spanning α-helical proteins. Single-spanning proteins constitute more than half of the integral outer membrane proteins; however, their biogenesis is poorly understood. We report that the yeast MIM complex promotes the insertion of proteins with N-terminal (signal-anchored) or C-terminal (tail-anchored) membrane anchors. The MIM complex exists in three dynamic populations. MIM interacts with TOM to accept precursor proteins from the receptor Tom70. Free MIM complexes insert single-spanning proteins that are imported in a Tom70-independent manner. Finally, coupling of MIM and SAM promotes early assembly steps of TOM subunits. We conclude that the MIM complex is a major and versatile protein translocase of the mitochondrial outer membrane."	0
"32320654"	"Cellular Importin-α3 Expression Dynamics in the Lung Regulate Antiviral Response Pathways against Influenza A Virus Infection.Importin-α adaptor proteins orchestrate dynamic nuclear transport processes involved in cellular homeostasis. Here, we show that importin-α3, one of the main NF-κB transporters, is the most abundantly expressed classical nuclear transport factor in the mammalian respiratory tract. Importin-α3 promoter activity is regulated by TNF-α-induced NF-κB in a concentration-dependent manner. High-level TNF-α-inducing highly pathogenic avian influenza A viruses (HPAIVs) isolated from fatal human cases harboring human-type polymerase signatures (PB2 627K, 701N) significantly downregulate importin-α3 mRNA expression in primary lung cells. Importin-α3 depletion is restored upon back-mutating the HPAIV polymerase into an avian-type signature (PB2 627E, 701D) that can no longer induce high TNF-α levels. Importin-α3-deficient mice show reduced NF-κB-activated antiviral gene expression and increased influenza lethality. Thus, importin-α3 plays a key role in antiviral immunity against influenza. Lifting the bottleneck in importin-α3 availability in the lung might provide a new strategy to combat respiratory virus infections."	1
"31968239"	"Loss of bhlha9 Impairs Thermotaxis and Formalin-Evoked Pain in a Sexually Dimorphic Manner.C-LTMRs are known to convey affective aspects of touch and to modulate injury-induced pain in humans and mice. However, a role for these neurons in temperature sensation has been suggested, but not fully demonstrated. Here, we report that deletion of C-low-threshold mechanoreceptor (C-LTMR)-expressed bhlha9 causes impaired thermotaxis behavior and exacerbated formalin-evoked pain in male, but not female, mice. Positive modulators of GABA<sub>A</sub> receptors failed to relieve inflammatory formalin pain and failed to decrease the frequency of spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic currents (sEPSCs) selectively in bhlha9 knockout (KO) males. This could be explained by a drastic change in the GABA content of lamina II inner inhibitory interneurons contacting C-LTMR central terminals. Finally, C-LTMR-specific deep RNA sequencing revealed more genes differentially expressed in male than in female bhlha9 KO C-LTMRs. Our data consolidate the role of C-LTMRs in modulation of formalin pain and provide in vivo evidence of their role in the discriminative aspects of temperature sensation."	0
"32294429"	"Progesterone Receptor Serves the Ovary as a Trigger of Ovulation and a Terminator of Inflammation.Ovulation is triggered by the gonadotropin surge that induces the expression of two key genes, progesterone receptor (Pgr) and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2), in the granulosa cells of preovulatory follicles. Their gene products PGR and PTGS2 activate two separate pathways that are both essential for successful ovulation. Here, we show that the PGR plays an additional essential role: it attenuates ovulatory inflammation by diminishing the gonadotropin surge-induced Ptgs2 expression. PGR indirectly terminates Ptgs2 expression and PGE2 synthesis in granulosa cells by inhibiting the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), a transcription factor required for Ptgs2 expression. When the expression of PGR is ablated in granulosa cells, the ovary undergoes a hyperinflammatory condition manifested by excessive PGE2 synthesis, immune cell infiltration, oxidative damage, and neoplastic transformation of ovarian cells. The PGR-driven termination of PTGS2 expression may protect the ovary from ovulatory inflammation."	1
"31399345"	"RNA 5-Methylcytosine Facilitates the Maternal-to-Zygotic Transition by Preventing Maternal mRNA Decay.The maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT) is a conserved and fundamental process during which the maternal environment is converted to an environment of embryonic-driven development through dramatic reprogramming. However, how maternally supplied transcripts are dynamically regulated during MZT remains largely unknown. Herein, through genome-wide profiling of RNA 5-methylcytosine (m<sup>5</sup>C) modification in zebrafish early embryos, we found that m<sup>5</sup>C-modified maternal mRNAs display higher stability than non-m<sup>5</sup>C-modified mRNAs during MZT. We discovered that Y-box binding protein 1 (Ybx1) preferentially recognizes m<sup>5</sup>C-modified mRNAs through π-π interactions with a key residue, Trp45, in Ybx1's cold shock domain (CSD), which plays essential roles in maternal mRNA stability and early embryogenesis of zebrafish. Together with the mRNA stabilizer Pabpc1a, Ybx1 promotes the stability of its target mRNAs in an m<sup>5</sup>C-dependent manner. Our study demonstrates an unexpected mechanism of RNA m<sup>5</sup>C-regulated maternal mRNA stabilization during zebrafish MZT, highlighting the critical role of m<sup>5</sup>C mRNA modification in early development."	1
"32302540"	"Protein Aggregation Triggered by Rewired Protein Homeostasis during Neuronal Differentiation.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Vonk et al. (2020) and Thiruvalluvan et al. (2020) identify key chaperones that confer resistance to protein aggregation in neural stem cells and become reduced upon differentiation."	0
"32579932"	"mTOR Signaling and SREBP Activity Increase FADS2 Expression and Can Activate Sapienate Biosynthesis.Cancer cells display an increased plasticity in their lipid metabolism, which includes the conversion of palmitate to sapienate via the enzyme fatty acid desaturase 2 (FADS2). We find that FADS2 expression correlates with mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) activity across multiple cancer types and is prognostic in some cancer types. Accordingly, activating mTOR signaling by deleting tuberous sclerosis complex 2 (Tsc2) or overexpression of SREBP-1/2 is sufficient to increase FADS2 mRNA expression and sapienate metabolism in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and U87 glioblastoma cells, respectively. Conversely, inhibiting mTOR signaling decreases FADS2 expression and sapienate biosynthesis in MEFs with Tsc2 deletion, HUH7 hepatocellular carcinoma cells, and orthotopic HUH7 liver xenografts. In conclusion, we show that mTOR signaling and SREBP activity are sufficient to activate sapienate metabolism by increasing FADS2 expression. Consequently, targeting mTOR signaling can reduce sapienate metabolism in vivo."	1
"32367047"	"Myeloid PTEN promotes chemotherapy-induced NLRP3-inflammasome activation and antitumour immunity.PTEN is a dual-specificity phosphatase that is frequently mutated in human cancer, and its deficiency in cancer has been associated with therapy resistance and poor survival. Although the intrinsic tumour-suppressor function of PTEN has been well established, evidence of its role in the tumour immune microenvironment is lacking. Here, we show that chemotherapy-induced antitumour immune responses and tumour suppression rely on myeloid-cell PTEN, which is essential for chemotherapy-induced activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and antitumour immunity. PTEN directly interacts with and dephosphorylates NLRP3 to enable NLRP3-ASC interaction, inflammasome assembly and activation. Importantly, supplementation of IL-1β restores chemotherapy sensitivity in mouse myeloid cells with a PTEN deficiency. Clinically, chemotherapy-induced IL-1β production and antitumour immunity in patients with cancer is correlated with PTEN expression in myeloid cells, but not tumour cells. Our results demonstrate that myeloid PTEN can determine chemotherapy responsiveness by promoting NLRP3-dependent antitumour immunity and suggest that myeloid PTEN might be a potential biomarker to predict chemotherapy responses."	1
"32753672"	"Mammalian Atg8 proteins and the autophagy factor IRGM control mTOR and TFEB at a regulatory node critical for responses to pathogens.Autophagy is a homeostatic process with multiple functions in mammalian cells. Here, we show that mammalian Atg8 proteins (mAtg8s) and the autophagy regulator IRGM control TFEB, a transcriptional activator of the lysosomal system. IRGM directly interacted with TFEB and promoted the nuclear translocation of TFEB. An mAtg8 partner of IRGM, GABARAP, interacted with TFEB. Deletion of all mAtg8s or GABARAPs affected the global transcriptional response to starvation and downregulated subsets of TFEB targets. IRGM and GABARAPs countered the action of mTOR as a negative regulator of TFEB. This was suppressed by constitutively active RagB, an activator of mTOR. Infection of macrophages with the membrane-permeabilizing microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis or infection of target cells by HIV elicited TFEB activation in an IRGM-dependent manner. Thus, IRGM and its interactors mAtg8s close a loop between the autophagosomal pathway and the control of lysosomal biogenesis by TFEB, thus ensuring coordinated activation of the two systems that eventually merge during autophagy."	1
"32690608"	"Ozone-derived oxysterols impair lung macrophage phagocytosis via adduction of some phagocytosis receptors.Inhalation of the ambient air pollutant ozone causes lung inflammation and can suppress host defense mechanisms, including impairing macrophage phagocytosis. Ozone reacts with cholesterol in the lung to form oxysterols, like secosterol A and secosterol B (SecoA and SecoB), which can form covalent adducts on cellular proteins. How oxysterol-protein adduction modifies the function of lung macrophages is unknown. Herein, we used a proteomic screen to identify lung macrophage proteins that form adducts with ozone-derived oxysterols. Functional ontology analysis of the adductome indicated that protein binding was a major function of adducted proteins. Further analysis of specific proteins forming adducts with SecoA identified the phagocytic receptors CD206 and CD64. Adduction of these receptors with ozone-derived oxysterols impaired ligand binding and corresponded with reduced macrophage phagocytosis. This work suggests a novel mechanism for the suppression of macrophage phagocytosis following ozone exposure through the generation of oxysterols and the formation of oxysterol-protein adducts on phagocytic receptors."	0
"31995768"	"Quantitative and Qualitative Analysis of Humoral Immunity Reveals Continued and Personalized Evolution in Chronic Viral Infection.Control of established chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection requires the production of neutralizing antibodies, but it remains unknown how the ensemble of antibodies evolves during ongoing infection. Here, we analyze the evolution of antibody responses during acute or chronic LCMV infection, combining quantitative functional assays and time-resolved antibody repertoire sequencing. We establish that antibody responses initially converge in both infection types on a functional and repertoire level, but diverge later during chronic infection, showing increased clonal diversity, the appearance of mouse-specific persistent clones, and distinct phylogenetic signatures. Chronic infection is characterized by a longer-lasting germinal center reaction and a continuous differentiation of plasma cells, resulting in the emergence of higher-affinity plasma cells exhibiting increased antibody secretion rates. Taken together, our findings reveal the emergence of a personalized antibody response in chronic infection and support the concept that maintaining B cell diversity throughout chronic LCMV infection correlates with the development of infection-resolving antibodies."	0
"32294449"	"Cell Metabolic Alterations due to Mcph1 Mutation in Microcephaly.A distinctive feature of neocortical development is the highly coordinated production of different progenitor cell subtypes, which are critical for ensuring adequate neurogenic outcome and the development of normal neocortical size. To further understand the mechanisms that underlie neocortical growth, we focused our studies on the microcephaly gene Mcph1, and we report here that Mcph1 (1) exerts its functions in rapidly dividing apical radial glial cells (aRGCs) during mouse neocortical development stages that precede indirect neurogenesis; (2) is expressed at mitochondria; and (3) controls the proper proliferation and survival of RGCs, potentially through crosstalk with cellular metabolic pathways involving the stimulation of mitochondrial activity via VDAC1/GRP75 and AKT/HK2/VDAC1 and glutaminolysis via ATF4/PCK2. We currently report the description of a MCPH-gene implication in the interplay between bioenergetic pathways and neocortical growth, thus pointing to alterations of cellular metabolic pathways, in particular glutaminolysis, as a possible cause of microcephalic pathogenesis."	1
"32251398"	"Loss of lenalidomide-induced megakaryocytic differentiation leads to therapy resistance in del(5q) myelodysplastic syndrome.Interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 5 (del(5q)) is the most common structural genomic variant in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS)<sup>1</sup>. Lenalidomide (LEN) is the treatment of choice for patients with del(5q) MDS, but half of the responding patients become resistant<sup>2</sup> within 2 years. TP53 mutations are detected in ~20% of LEN-resistant patients<sup>3</sup>. Here we show that patients who become resistant to LEN harbour recurrent variants of TP53 or RUNX1. LEN upregulated RUNX1 protein and function in a CRBN- and TP53-dependent manner in del(5q) cells, and mutation or downregulation of RUNX1 rendered cells resistant to LEN. LEN induced megakaryocytic differentiation of del(5q) cells followed by cell death that was dependent on calpain activation and CSNK1A1 degradation<sup>4,5</sup>. We also identified GATA2 as a LEN-responsive gene that is required for LEN-induced megakaryocyte differentiation. Megakaryocytic gene-promoter analyses suggested that LEN-induced degradation of IKZF1 enables a RUNX1-GATA2 complex to drive megakaryocytic differentiation. Overexpression of GATA2 restored LEN sensitivity in the context of RUNX1 or TP53 mutations by enhancing LEN-induced megakaryocytic differentiation. Screening for mutations that block LEN-induced megakaryocytic differentiation should identify patients who are resistant to LEN."	0
"31940493"	"FOXD3 Regulates VISTA Expression in Melanoma.Immune checkpoint inhibitors have improved patient survival in melanoma, but the innate resistance of many patients necessitates the investigation of alternative immune targets. Many immune checkpoint proteins lack proper characterization, including V-domain Ig suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA). VISTA expression on immune cells can suppress T cell activity; however, few studies have investigated its expression and regulation in cancer cells. In this study, we observe that VISTA is expressed in melanoma patient samples and cell lines. Tumor cell-specific expression of VISTA promotes tumor onset in vivo, associated with increased intratumoral T regulatory cells, and enhanced PDL-1 expression on tumor-infiltrating macrophages. VISTA transcript levels are regulated by the stemness factor Forkhead box D3 (FOXD3). BRAF inhibition upregulates FOXD3 and reduces VISTA expression. Overall, this study demonstrates melanoma cell expression of VISTA and its regulation by FOXD3, contributing to the rationale for therapeutic strategies that combine targeted inhibitors with immune checkpoint blockade."	1
"32937124"	"The Natural Compound Notopterol Binds and Targets JAK2/3 to Ameliorate Inflammation and Arthritis.The traditional Chinese medicinal herb Notopterygium incisum Ting ex H.T. Chang has anti-rheumatism activity, and a mass spectrometry assay of patients' serum after administration of the herb revealed that notopterol is the most abundant component enriched. However, the functions of notopterol and its molecular target in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment remain unknown. Here, we show in different RA mouse strains that both oral and intraperitoneal administration of notopterol result in significant therapeutic effects. Mechanistically, notopterol directly binds Janus kinase (JAK)2 and JAK3 kinase domains to inhibit JAK/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) activation, leading to reduced production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Critically, combination therapy using both notopterol and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker results in enhanced therapeutic effects compared to using TNF blocker alone. We demonstrate that notopterol ameliorates RA pathology by targeting JAK-STAT signaling, raising the possibility that notopterol could be effective in treating other diseases characterized by aberrant JAK-STAT signaling pathway."	1
"31442421"	"Toward a Comprehensive View of MicroRNA Biology.In this issue of Molecular Cell, two complementary studies illuminate miRNA biology with unprecedented depth and breadth. Reichholf et al. (2019) present a quantitative view of miRNA biogenesis and turnover, while Becker et al. (2019) describe an exhaustive evaluation of miRNA target recognition."	0
"32699111"	"Brain cell somatic gene recombination and its phylogenetic foundations.A new form of somatic gene recombination (SGR) has been identified in the human brain that affects the Alzheimer's disease gene, amyloid precursor protein (<i>APP</i>). SGR occurs when a gene sequence is cut and recombined within a single cell's genomic DNA, generally independent of DNA replication and the cell cycle. The newly identified brain SGR produces genomic complementary DNAs (gencDNAs) lacking introns, which integrate into locations distinct from germline loci. This brief review will present an overview of likely related recombination mechanisms and genomic cDNA-like sequences that implicate evolutionary origins for brain SGR. Similarities and differences exist between brain SGR and VDJ recombination in the immune system, the first identified SGR form that now has a well-defined enzymatic machinery. Both require gene transcription, but brain SGR uses an RNA intermediate and reverse transcriptase (RT) activity, which are characteristics shared with endogenous retrotransposons. The identified gencDNAs have similarities to other cDNA-like sequences existing throughout phylogeny, including intron-less genes and inactive germline processed pseudogenes, with likely overlapping biosynthetic processes. gencDNAs arise somatically in an individual to produce multiple copies; can be functional; appear most frequently within postmitotic cells; have diverse sequences; change with age; and can change with disease state. Normally occurring brain SGR may represent a mechanism for gene optimization and long-term cellular memory, whereas its dysregulation could underlie multiple brain disorders and, potentially, other diseases like cancer. The involvement of RT activity implicates already Food and Drug Administration-approved RT inhibitors as possible near-term interventions for managing SGR-associated diseases and suggest next-generation therapeutics targeting SGR elements."	0
"32937132"	"Toll-like Receptor 5 Activation by the CagY Repeat Domains of Helicobacter pylori.Helicobacter pylori (Hp) is an important human pathogen associated with gastric inflammation and neoplasia. It is commonly believed that this bacterium avoids major immune recognition by Toll-like receptors (TLRs) because of low intrinsic activity of its flagellin and lipopolysaccharides (LPS). In particular, TLR5 specifically detects flagellins in various bacterial pathogens, while Hp evolved mutations in flagellin to evade detection through TLR5. Cancerogenic Hp strains encode a type IV secretion system (T4SS). The T4SS core component and pilus-associated protein CagY, a large VirB10 ortholog, drives effector molecule translocation. Here, we identify CagY as a flagellin-independent TLR5 agonist. We detect five TLR5 interaction sites, promoting binding of CagY-positive Hp to TLR5-expressing cells, TLR5 stimulation, and intracellular signal transduction. Consequently, CagY constitutes a remarkable VirB10 member detected by TLR5, driving crucial innate immune responses by this human pathogen."	0
"32433966"	"CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 Axis Mediates Neuroinflammatory Cascade across Schwann Cell-Neuron-Microglia.Neuroinflammation is a crucial mechanism in many neurological disorders. Injury to the peripheral sensory nerves leads to a neuroinflammatory response in the somatosensory pathway, from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) to the spinal cord, contributing to neuropathic pain. How the immune reaction is initiated peripherally and propagated to the spinal cord remains less clear. Here, we find that ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), highly expressed in Schwann cells, mediates neuroinflammatory response through the activating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and inducing interleukin 6 (IL-6) in sensory neurons. Cntf deficiency attenuates neuroinflammation in DRG and the spinal cord with alleviated pain post-injury. Recombinant CNTF applied to the sensory nerves recapitulates neuroinflammation in the DRG and spinal cord, with consequent pain development. We delineate the CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 axis in mediating the onset and progression of the inflammatory cascade from the periphery to the spinal cord with therapeutic implications for neuropathic pain."	1
"31735641"	"Cancer-Derived Succinate Promotes Macrophage Polarization and Cancer Metastasis via Succinate Receptor.Macrophages form a major cell population in the tumor microenvironment. They can be activated and polarized into tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) by the tumor-derived soluble molecules to promote tumor progression and metastasis. Here, we used comparative metabolomics coupled with biochemical and animal studies to show that cancer cells release succinate into their microenvironment and activate succinate receptor (SUCNR1) signaling to polarize macrophages into TAM. Furthermore, the results from in vitro and in vivo studies revealed that succinate promotes not only cancer cell migration and invasion but also cancer metastasis. These effects are mediated by SUCNR1-triggered PI3K-hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) axis. Compared with healthy subjects and tumor-free lung tissues, serum succinate levels and lung cancer SUCNR1 expression were elevated in lung cancer patients, suggesting an important clinical relevance. Collectively, our findings indicate that the secreted tumor-derived succinate belongs to a novel class of cancer progression factors, controlling TAM polarization and promoting tumorigenic signaling."	1
"32719012"	"A cytoskeletal protein complex is essential for division of intracellular amastigotes of <i>Leishmania mexicana</i>.Previous studies in <i>Leishmania mexicana</i> have identified the cytoskeletal protein KHARON as being important for both flagellar trafficking of the glucose transporter GT1 and for successful cytokinesis and survival of infectious amastigote forms inside mammalian macrophages. KHARON is located in three distinct regions of the cytoskeleton: the base of the flagellum, the subpellicular microtubules, and the mitotic spindle. To deconvolve the different functions for KHARON, we have identified two partner proteins, KHAP1 and KHAP2, which associate with KHARON. KHAP1 is located only in the subpellicular microtubules, whereas KHAP2 is located at the subpellicular microtubules and the base of the flagellum. Both <i>KHAP1</i> and <i>KHAP2</i> null mutants are unable to execute cytokinesis but are able to traffic GT1 to the flagellum. These results confirm that KHARON assembles into distinct functional complexes and that the subpellicular complex is essential for cytokinesis and viability of disease-causing amastigotes but not for flagellar membrane trafficking."	0
"32381626"	"TEX15 associates with MILI and silences transposable elements in male germ cells.DNA methylation is a major silencing mechanism of transposable elements (TEs). Here we report that TEX15, a testis-specific protein, is required for TE silencing. TEX15 is expressed in embryonic germ cells and functions during genome-wide epigenetic reprogramming. The <i>Tex15</i> mutant exhibits DNA hypomethylation in TEs at a level similar to <i>Mili</i> and <i>Dnmt3c</i> but not <i>Miwi2</i> mutants. TEX15 is associated with MILI in testis. As loss of <i>Tex15</i> causes TE desilencing with intact piRNA production, our results identify TEX15 as a new essential epigenetic regulator that may function as a nuclear effector of MILI to silence TEs by DNA methylation."	1
"30853402"	"The Cargo Receptor NDP52 Initiates Selective Autophagy by Recruiting the ULK Complex to Cytosol-Invading Bacteria.Xenophagy, a selective autophagy pathway that protects the cytosol against bacterial invasion, relies on cargo receptors that juxtapose bacteria and phagophore membranes. Whether phagophores are recruited from a constitutive pool or are generated de novo at prospective cargo remains unknown. Phagophore formation in situ would require recruitment of the upstream autophagy machinery to prospective cargo. Here, we show that, essential for anti-bacterial autophagy, the cargo receptor NDP52 forms a trimeric complex with FIP200 and SINTBAD/NAP1, which are subunits of the autophagy-initiating ULK and the TBK1 kinase complex, respectively. FIP200 and SINTBAD/NAP1 are each recruited independently to bacteria via NDP52, as revealed by selective point mutations in their respective binding sites, but only in their combined presence does xenophagy proceed. Such recruitment of the upstream autophagy machinery by NDP52 reveals how detection of cargo-associated ""eat me"" signals, induction of autophagy, and juxtaposition of cargo and phagophores are integrated in higher eukaryotes."	1
"30609388"	"CDK4 Inhibitors Thwart Immunity by Inhibiting Phospho-RB-NF-κB Complexes.PD-L1 plays a central role in immune recognition of cancer cells. In this issue of Molecular Cell, Jin et al. (2019) report that a phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein contacts the DNA-binding domain of p65 NF-κB, thereby blocking transcription of PD-L1."	0
"32668250"	"Macrophage Exosomes Resolve Atherosclerosis by Regulating Hematopoiesis and Inflammation via MicroRNA Cargo.Developing strategies that promote the resolution of vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis remains a major therapeutic challenge. Here, we show that exosomes produced by naive bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM-exo) contain anti-inflammatory microRNA-99a/146b/378a that are further increased in exosomes produced by BMDM polarized with IL-4 (BMDM-IL-4-exo). These exosomal microRNAs suppress inflammation by targeting NF-κB and TNF-α signaling and foster M2 polarization in recipient macrophages. Repeated infusions of BMDM-IL-4-exo into Apoe<sup>-/-</sup> mice fed a Western diet reduce excessive hematopoiesis in the bone marrow and thereby the number of myeloid cells in the circulation and macrophages in aortic root lesions. This also leads to a reduction in necrotic lesion areas that collectively stabilize atheroma. Thus, BMDM-IL-4-exo may represent a useful therapeutic approach for atherosclerosis and other inflammatory disorders by targeting NF-κB and TNF-α via microRNA cargo delivery."	0
"32209467"	"Acute Plasmodium Infection Promotes Interferon-Gamma-Dependent Resistance to Ebola Virus Infection.During the 2013-2016 Ebola virus (EBOV) epidemic, a significant number of patients admitted to Ebola treatment units were co-infected with Plasmodium falciparum, a predominant agent of malaria. However, there is no consensus on how malaria impacts EBOV infection. The effect of acute Plasmodium infection on EBOV challenge was investigated using mouse-adapted EBOV and a biosafety level 2 (BSL-2) model virus. We demonstrate that acute Plasmodium infection protects from lethal viral challenge, dependent upon interferon gamma (IFN-γ) elicited as a result of parasite infection. Plasmodium-infected mice lacking the IFN-γ receptor are not protected. Ex vivo incubation of naive human or mouse macrophages with sera from acutely parasitemic rodents or macaques programs a proinflammatory phenotype dependent on IFN-γ and renders cells resistant to EBOV infection. We conclude that acute Plasmodium infection can safeguard against EBOV by the production of protective IFN-γ. These findings have implications for anti-malaria therapies administered during episodic EBOV outbreaks in Africa."	0
"31629659"	"KDM3A Senses Oxygen Availability to Regulate PGC-1α-Mediated Mitochondrial Biogenesis.Hypoxia, which occurs during tumor growth, triggers complex adaptive responses in which peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α) plays a critical role in mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. However, how PGC-1α is regulated in response to oxygen availability remains unclear. We demonstrated that lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) binds to PGC-1α and demethylates monomethylated lysine (K) 224 of PGC-1α under normoxic conditions. Hypoxic stimulation inhibits KDM3A, which has a high K<sub>M</sub> of oxygen for its activity, and enhances PGC-1α K224 monomethylation. This modification decreases PGC-1α's activity required for NRF1- and NRF2-dependent transcriptional regulation of TFAM, TFB1M, and TFB2M, resulting in reduced mitochondrial biogenesis. Expression of PGC-1α K224R mutant significantly increases mitochondrial biogenesis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and tumor cell apoptosis under hypoxia and inhibits brain tumor growth in mice. This study revealed that PGC-1α monomethylation, which is dependent on oxygen availability-regulated KDM3A, plays a critical role in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis."	1
"32755576"	"Stromal Cell-Contact Dependent PI3K and APRIL Induced NF-κB Signaling Prevent Mitochondrial- and ER Stress Induced Death of Memory Plasma Cells.The persistence of long-lived memory plasma cells in the bone marrow depends on survival factors available in the bone marrow, which are provided in niches organized by stromal cells. Using an ex vivo system in which we supply the known survival signals, direct cell contact to stromal cells, and the soluble cytokine a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), we have elucidated the critical signaling pathways required for the survival of long-lived plasma cells. Integrin-mediated contact of bone marrow plasma cells with stromal cells activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway, leading to critical inactivation of Forkhead-Box-Protein O1/3 (FoxO1/3) and preventing the activation of mitochondrial stress-associated effector caspases 3 and 7. Accordingly, inhibition of PI3K signaling in vivo ablates bone marrow plasma cells. APRIL signaling, by the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway, blocks activation of the endoplasmic-reticulum-stress-associated initiator caspase 12. Thus, stromal-cell-contact-induced PI3K and APRIL-induced NF-κB signaling provide the necessary and complementary signals to maintain bone marrow memory plasma cells."	1
"32937137"	"LIM-Homeodomain Transcription Factor LHX4 Is Required for the Differentiation of Retinal Rod Bipolar Cells and OFF-Cone Bipolar Subtypes.Retinal bipolar cells (BCs) connect with photoreceptors and relay visual information to retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Retina-specific deletion of Lhx4 in mice results in a visual defect resembling human congenital stationary night blindness. This visual dysfunction results from the absence of rod bipolar cells (RBCs) and the loss of selective rod-connecting cone bipolar cell (CBC) subtypes and AII amacrine cells (ACs). Inactivation of Lhx4 causes the apoptosis of BCs and cell fate switch from some BCs to ACs, whereas Lhx4 overexpression promotes BC genesis. Moreover, Lhx4 positively regulates Lhx3 expression to drive the fate choice of type 2 BCs over the GABAergic ACs. Lhx4 inactivation ablates Bhlhe23 expression, whereas overexpression of Bhlhe23 partially rescues RBC development in the absence of Lhx4. Thus, by acting upstream of Bhlhe23, Prdm8, Fezf2, Lhx3, and other BC genes, Lhx4, together with Isl1, could play essential roles in regulating the subtype-specific development of RBCs and CBCs."	0
"32348770"	"Id1 and Id3 Maintain Steady-State Hematopoiesis by Promoting Sinusoidal Endothelial Cell Survival and Regeneration.Investigating mechanisms that regulate endothelial cell (EC) growth and survival is important for understanding EC homeostasis and how ECs maintain stem cell niches. We report here that targeted loss of Id genes in adult ECs results in dilated, leaky sinusoids and a pro-inflammatory state that increases in severity over time. Disruption in sinusoidal integrity leads to increased hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) proliferation, differentiation, migration, and exhaustion. Mechanistically, sinusoidal ECs (SECs) show increased apoptosis because of reduced Bcl2-family gene expression following Id gene ablation. Furthermore, Id1<sup>-/-</sup>Id3<sup>-/-</sup> SECs and upstream type H vessels show increased expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p21 and p27 and impaired ability to proliferate, which is rescued by reducing E2-2 expression. Id1<sup>-/-</sup>Id3<sup>-/-</sup> mice do not survive sublethal irradiation because of impaired vessel regeneration and hematopoietic failure. Thus, Id genes are required for the survival and regeneration of BM SECs during homeostasis and stress to maintain HSC development."	0
"31000437"	"Regulation of UCP1 and Mitochondrial Metabolism in Brown Adipose Tissue by Reversible Succinylation.Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is rich in mitochondria and plays important roles in energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. We find that levels of mitochondrial protein succinylation and malonylation are high in BAT and subject to physiological and genetic regulation. BAT-specific deletion of Sirt5, a mitochondrial desuccinylase and demalonylase, results in dramatic increases in global protein succinylation and malonylation. Mass spectrometry-based quantification of succinylation reveals that Sirt5 regulates the key thermogenic protein in BAT, UCP1. Mutation of the two succinylated lysines in UCP1 to acyl-mimetic glutamine and glutamic acid significantly decreases its stability and activity. The reduced function of UCP1 and other proteins in Sirt5KO BAT results in impaired mitochondria respiration, defective mitophagy, and metabolic inflexibility. Thus, succinylation of UCP1 and other mitochondrial proteins plays an important role in BAT and in regulation of energy homeostasis."	1
"32375027"	"Systematic Analysis of Targets of Pumilio-Mediated mRNA Decay Reveals that PUM1 Repression by DNA Damage Activates Translesion Synthesis.RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play a pivotal role in gene expression by modulating the stability of transcripts. However, the identification of degradation target mRNAs of RBPs remains difficult. By the combined analysis of transcriptome-wide mRNA stabilities and the binding of mRNAs to human Pumilio 1 (PUM1), we identify 48 mRNAs that both bind to PUM1 and exhibit PUM1-dependent degradation. Analysis of changes in the abundance of PUM1 and its degradation target mRNAs in RNA-seq data indicate that DNA-damaging agents negatively regulate PUM1-mediated mRNA decay. Cells exposed to cisplatin have reduced PUM1 abundance and increased PCNA and UBE2A mRNAs encoding proteins involved in DNA damage tolerance by translesion synthesis (TLS). Cells overexpressing PUM1 exhibit impaired DNA synthesis and TLS and increased sensitivity to the cytotoxic effect of cisplatin. Thus, our method identifies target mRNAs of PUM1-mediated decay and reveals that cells respond to DNA damage by inhibiting PUM1-mediated mRNA decay to activate TLS."	1
