"pmid"	"text"	"hit"
"31491424"	"A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing: Chromosomal Pathogenicity Islands Co-opt Phage Capsids to Facilitate Horizontal Spread.Fillol-Salom et al. describe a mechanism by which an Escherichia coli pathogenicity island is preferentially packaged into a phage particle, thus promoting the spread of pathogenic traits among Gram-negative bacteria while protecting them from lytic infection."	0
"32619402"	"Structural Insights into Pseudokinase Domains of Receptor Tyrosine Kinases.Despite their apparent lack of catalytic activity, pseudokinases are essential signaling molecules. Here, we describe the structural and dynamic properties of pseudokinase domains from the Wnt-binding receptor tyrosine kinases (PTK7, ROR1, ROR2, and RYK), which play important roles in development. We determined structures of all pseudokinase domains in this family and found that they share a conserved inactive conformation in their activation loop that resembles the autoinhibited insulin receptor kinase (IRK). They also have inaccessible ATP-binding pockets, occluded by aromatic residues that mimic a cofactor-bound state. Structural comparisons revealed significant domain plasticity and alternative interactions that substitute for absent conserved motifs. The pseudokinases also showed dynamic properties that were strikingly similar to those of IRK. Despite the inaccessible ATP site, screening identified ATP-competitive type-II inhibitors for ROR1. Our results set the stage for an emerging therapeutic modality of ""conformational disruptors"" to inhibit or modulate non-catalytic functions of pseudokinases deregulated in disease."	0
"32605924"	"A polysaccharide extract from the medicinal plant Maidong inhibits the IKK-NF-κB pathway and IL-1β-induced islet inflammation and increases insulin secretion.The herb dwarf lilyturf tuber (Maidong, <i>Ophiopogonis Radix</i>) is widely used in Chinese traditional medicine to manage diabetes and its complications. However, the role of Maidong polysaccharide extract (MPE) in pancreatic β-cell function is unclear. Here, we investigated whether MPE protects β-cell function and studied the underlying mechanisms. We treated <i>db/db</i> and high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mice with 800 or 400 mg/kg MPE or water for 4 weeks, followed by an oral glucose tolerance test. Pancreas and blood were collected for molecular analyses, and clonal MIN6 β-cells and primary islets from HFD-induced obese mice and normal chow diet-fed mice were used in additional analyses. <i>In vivo</i>, MPE both increased insulin secretion and reduced blood glucose in the <i>db/db</i> mice but increased only insulin secretion in the HFD-induced obese mice. MPE substantially increased the β-cell area in both models (3-fold and 2-fold, <i>p</i> < 0.01, for <i>db/db</i> and HFD mice, respectively). We observed reduced nuclear translocation of the p65 subunit of NF-κB in islets of MPE-treated db/db mice, coinciding with enhanced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS). <i>In vitro</i>, MPE potentiated GSIS and decreased interleukin 1β (IL-1β) secretion in MIN6 β-cells. Incubation of MIN6 cells with tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), interferon-γ, and IL-1β amplified IL-1β secretion and inhibited GSIS. These effects were partially reversed with MPE or the IκB kinase β inhibitor PS1145, coinciding with reduced activation of p65 and p-IκB in the NF-κB pathway. We conclude that MPE may have potential for therapeutic development for β-cell protection."	0
"32647011"	"The key royal jelly component 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid protects against bone loss by inhibiting NF-κB signaling downstream of FFAR4.The supplementation of royal jelly (RJ) is known to provide a variety of health benefits, including anti-inflammatory and anti-obesity effects. RJ treatment also reportedly protects against bone loss, but no single factor in RJ has yet been identified as an anti-osteoporosis agent. Here we fractionated RJ and identified 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid (10H2DA) as a key component involved in inhibiting osteoclastogenesis based on mass spectrometric analysis. We further demonstrated free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4) as directly interacting with 10H2DA; binding of 10H2DA to FFAR4 on osteoclasts inhibited receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) ligand (RANKL)-induced activation of NF-κB signaling, thereby attenuating the induction of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) c1, a key transcription factor for osteoclastogenesis. Oral administration of 10H2DA attenuated bone resorption in ovariectomized mice. These results suggest a potential therapeutic approach of targeting osteoclast differentiation by the supplementation of RJ, and specifically 10H2DA, in cases of pathological bone loss such as occur in postmenopausal osteoporosis."	1
"32640233"	"Theta Oscillations Coincide with Sustained Hyperpolarization in CA3 Pyramidal Cells, Underlying Decreased Firing.Brain states modulate the membrane potential dynamics of neurons, influencing the functional repertoire of the network. Pyramidal cells (PCs) in the hippocampal CA3 are necessary for rapid memory encoding, which preferentially occurs during exploratory behavior in the high-arousal theta state. However, the relationship between the membrane potential dynamics of CA3 PCs and theta has not been explored. Here we characterize the changes in the membrane potential of PCs in relation to theta using electrophysiological recordings in awake mice. During theta, most PCs behave in a stereotypical manner, consistently hyperpolarizing time-locked to the duration of theta. Additionally, PCs display lower membrane potential variance and a reduced firing rate. In contrast, during large irregular activity, PCs show heterogeneous changes in membrane potential. This suggests coordinated hyperpolarization of PCs during theta, possibly caused by increased inhibition. This could lead to a higher signal-to-noise ratio in the small population of PCs active during theta, as observed in ensemble recordings."	0
"32393885"	"Base editing goes into hyperdrive."	0
"32049013"	"A FLCN-TFE3 Feedback Loop Prevents Excessive Glycogenesis and Phagocyte Activation by Regulating Lysosome Activity.The tumor suppressor folliculin (FLCN) suppresses nuclear translocation of TFE3, a master transcription factor for lysosomal biogenesis, via regulation of amino-acid-sensing Rag GTPases. However, the importance of this lysosomal regulation in mammalian physiology remains unclear. Following hematopoietic-lineage-specific Flcn deletion in mice, we found expansion of vacuolated phagocytes that accumulate glycogen in their cytoplasm, phenotypes reminiscent of lysosomal storage disorder (LSD). We report that TFE3 acts in a feedback loop to transcriptionally activate FLCN expression, and FLCN loss disrupts this loop, augmenting TFE3 activity. Tfe3 deletion in Flcn knockout mice reduces the number of phagocytes and ameliorates LSD-like phenotypes. We further reveal that TFE3 stimulates glycogenesis by promoting the expression of glycogenesis genes, including Gys1 and Gyg, upon loss of Flcn. Taken together, we propose that the FLCN-TFE3 feedback loop acts as a rheostat to control lysosome activity and prevents excessive glycogenesis and LSD-like phagocyte activation."	1
"32587091"	"The deubiquitinase USP7 uses a distinct ubiquitin-like domain to deubiquitinate NF-ĸB subunits.The transcription factor NF-ĸB is a master regulator of the innate immune response and plays a central role in inflammatory diseases by mediating the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Ubiquitination-triggered proteasomal degradation of DNA-bound NF-ĸB strongly limits the expression of its target genes. Conversely, USP7 (deubiquitinase ubiquitin-specific peptidase 7) opposes the activities of E3 ligases, stabilizes DNA-bound NF-ĸB, and thereby promotes NF-ĸB-mediated transcription. Using gene expression and synthetic peptide arrays on membrane support and overlay analyses, we found here that inhibiting USP7 increases NF-ĸB ubiquitination and degradation, prevents Toll-like receptor-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, and represents an effective strategy for controlling inflammation. However, the broad regulatory roles of USP7 in cell death pathways, chromatin, and DNA damage responses limit the use of catalytic inhibitors of USP7 as anti-inflammatory agents. To this end, we identified an NF-ĸB-binding site in USP7, ubiquitin-like domain 2, that selectively mediates interactions of USP7 with NF-ĸB subunits but is dispensable for interactions with other proteins. Moreover, we found that the amino acids <sup>757</sup>LDEL<sup>760</sup> in USP7 critically contribute to the interaction with the p65 subunit of NF-ĸB. Our findings support the notion that USP7 activity could be potentially targeted in a substrate-selective manner through the development of noncatalytic inhibitors of this deubiquitinase to abrogate NF-ĸB activity."	0
"32738194"	"Quality Control of ER Membrane Proteins by the RNF185/Membralin Ubiquitin Ligase Complex.Misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are degraded by ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Although ERAD components involved in degradation of luminal substrates are well characterized, much less is known about quality control of membrane proteins. Here, we analyzed the degradation pathways of two short-lived ER membrane model proteins in mammalian cells. Using a CRISPR-Cas9 genome-wide library screen, we identified an ERAD branch required for quality control of a subset of membrane proteins. Using biochemical and mass spectrometry approaches, we showed that this ERAD branch is defined by an ER membrane complex consisting of the ubiquitin ligase RNF185, the ubiquitin-like domain containing proteins TMUB1/2 and TMEM259/Membralin, a poorly characterized protein. This complex cooperates with cytosolic ubiquitin ligase UBE3C and p97 ATPase in degrading their membrane substrates. Our data reveal that ERAD branches have remarkable specificity for their membrane substrates, suggesting that multiple, perhaps combinatorial, determinants are involved in substrate selection."	1
"30738703"	"Porin Associates with Tom22 to Regulate the Mitochondrial Protein Gate Assembly.Mitochondria import nearly all of their resident proteins from the cytosol, and the TOM complex functions as their entry gate. The TOM complex undergoes a dynamic conversion between the majority population of a three-channel gateway (""trimer"") and the minor population that lacks Tom22 and has only two Tom40 channels (""dimer""). Here, we found that the porin Por1 acts as a sink to bind newly imported Tom22. This Por1 association thereby modulates Tom22 integration into the TOM complex, guaranteeing formation of the functional trimeric TOM complex. Por1 sequestration of Tom22 dissociated from the trimeric TOM complex also enhances the dimeric TOM complex, which is preferable for the import of TIM40/MIA-dependent proteins into mitochondria. Furthermore, Por1 appears to contribute to cell-cycle-dependent variation of the functional trimeric TOM complex by chaperoning monomeric Tom22, which arises from the cell-cycle-controlled variation of phosphorylated Tom6."	1
"31951543"	"Yeast Sporulation and [SMAUG<sup>+</sup>] Prion: Faster Is Not Always Better.Chakravarty et al. (2019) and Itakura et al. (2019) report that the yeast RNA-binding protein Vts1 can convert into the [SMAUG<sup>+</sup>] prion state and delay meiosis commitment in response to starvation. It enables budding yeast to optimize their sporulation efficiency depending on how quickly nutrient availability fluctuates in their environment."	0
"32579940"	"CD28 Regulates Metabolic Fitness for Long-Lived Plasma Cell Survival.Durable humoral immunity against epidemic infectious disease requires the survival of long-lived plasma cells (LLPCs). LLPC longevity is dependent on metabolic programs distinct from short-lived plasma cells (SLPCs); however, the mechanistic basis for this difference is unclear. We have previously shown that CD28, the prototypic T cell costimulatory receptor, is expressed on both LLPCs and SLPCs but is essential only for LLPC survival. Here we show that CD28 transduces pro-survival signaling specifically in LLPCs through differential SLP76 expression. CD28 signaling in LLPCs increased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass/respiration, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Unexpectedly, CD28-mediated regulation of mitochondrial respiration, NF-κB activation, and survival was ROS dependent. IRF4, a target of NF-κB, was upregulated by CD28 activation in LLPCs and decreased IRF4 levels correlated with decreased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass, ROS, and CD28-mediated survival. Altogether, these data demonstrate that CD28 signaling induces a ROS-dependent metabolic program required for LLPC survival."	1
"32641494"	"Modulation of Kv4.2/KChIP3 interaction by the ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal 3 protein CLN3.Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels of the Kv4 subfamily associate with Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs), which leads to enhanced surface expression and shapes the inactivation gating of these channels. KChIP3 has been reported to also interact with the late endosomal/lysosomal membrane glycoprotein CLN3 (ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal 3), which is modified because of gene mutation in juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (JNCL). The present study was undertaken to find out whether and how CLN3, by its interaction with KChIP3, may indirectly modulate Kv4.2 channel expression and function. To this end, we expressed KChIP3 and CLN3, either individually or simultaneously, together with Kv4.2 in HEK 293 cells. We performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments and found a lower amount of KChIP3 bound to Kv4.2 in the presence of CLN3. In whole-cell patch-clamp experiments, we examined the effects of CLN3 co-expression on the KChIP3-mediated modulation of Kv4.2 channels. Simultaneous co-expression of CLN3 and KChIP3 with Kv4.2 resulted in a suppression of the typical KChIP3-mediated modulation; <i>i.e.</i> we observed less increase in current density, less slowing of macroscopic current decay, less acceleration of recovery from inactivation, and a less positively shifted voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation. The suppression of the KChIP3-mediated modulation of Kv4.2 channels was weaker for the JNCL-related missense mutant CLN3<sub>R334C</sub> and for a JNCL-related C-terminal deletion mutant (CLN3ΔC). Our data support the notion that CLN3 is involved in Kv4.2/KChIP3 somatodendritic A-type channel formation, trafficking, and function, a feature that may be lost in JNCL."	0
"32160551"	"NRBP1-Containing CRL2/CRL4A Regulates Amyloid β Production by Targeting BRI2 and BRI3 for Degradation.Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by accumulations of Aβ peptides. Production and fibrillation of Aβ are downregulated by BRI2 and BRI3, which are physiological inhibitors of amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and Aβ oligomerization. Here, we identify nuclear receptor binding protein 1 (NRBP1) as a substrate receptor of a Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL) that targets BRI2 and BRI3 for degradation. Moreover, we demonstrate that (1) dimerized NRBP1 assembles into a functional Cul2- and Cul4A-containing heterodimeric CRL through its BC-box and an overlapping cryptic H-box, (2) both Cul2 and Cul4A contribute to NRBP1 CRL function, and (3) formation of the NRBP1 heterodimeric CRL is strongly enhanced by chaperone-like function of TSC22D3 and TSC22D4. NRBP1 knockdown in neuronal cells results in an increase in the abundance of BRI2 and BRI3 and significantly reduces Aβ production. Thus, disrupting interactions between NRBP1 and its substrates BRI2 and BRI3 may provide a useful therapeutic strategy for AD."	1
"31178354"	"Stresses that Raise Np<sub>4</sub>A Levels Induce Protective Nucleoside Tetraphosphate Capping of Bacterial RNA.Present in all realms of life, dinucleoside tetraphosphates (Np<sub>4</sub>Ns) are generally considered signaling molecules. However, only a single pathway for Np<sub>4</sub>N signaling has been delineated in eukaryotes, and no receptor that mediates the influence of Np<sub>4</sub>Ns has ever been identified in bacteria. Here we show that, under disulfide stress conditions that elevate cellular Np<sub>4</sub>N concentrations, diverse Escherichia coli mRNAs and sRNAs acquire a cognate Np<sub>4</sub> cap. Purified E. coli RNA polymerase and lysyl-tRNA synthetase are both capable of adding such 5' caps. Cap removal by either of two pyrophosphatases, ApaH or RppH, triggers rapid RNA degradation in E. coli. ApaH, the predominant decapping enzyme, functions as both a sensor and an effector of disulfide stress, which inactivates it. These findings suggest that the physiological changes attributed to elevated Np<sub>4</sub>N concentrations in bacteria may result from widespread Np<sub>4</sub> capping, leading to altered RNA stability and consequent changes in gene expression."	0
"32341550"	"Tissue-resident ductal macrophages survey the mammary epithelium and facilitate tissue remodelling.Macrophages are diverse immune cells that reside in all tissues. Although macrophages have been implicated in mammary-gland function, their diversity has not been fully addressed. By exploiting high-resolution three-dimensional imaging and flow cytometry, we identified a unique population of tissue-resident ductal macrophages that form a contiguous network between the luminal and basal layers of the epithelial tree throughout postnatal development. Ductal macrophages are long lived and constantly survey the epithelium through dendrite movement, revealed via advanced intravital imaging. Although initially originating from embryonic precursors, ductal macrophages derive from circulating monocytes as they expand during puberty. Moreover, they undergo proliferation in pregnancy to maintain complete coverage of the epithelium in lactation, when they are poised to phagocytose milk-producing cells post-lactation and facilitate remodelling. Interestingly, ductal macrophages strongly resemble mammary tumour macrophages and form a network that pervades the tumour. Thus, the mammary epithelium programs specialized resident macrophages in both physiological and tumorigenic contexts."	0
"32402286"	"CCDC57 Cooperates with Microtubules and Microcephaly Protein CEP63 and Regulates Centriole Duplication and Mitotic Progression.Centrosomes function in key cellular processes ranging from cell division to cellular signaling. Their dysfunction is linked to cancer and developmental disorders. Here, we identify CCDC57 as a pleiotropic regulator of centriole duplication, mitosis, and ciliogenesis. Combining proximity mapping with superresolution imaging, we show that CCDC57 localizes to the proximal end of centrioles and interacts with the microcephaly protein CEP63, centriolar satellite proteins, and microtubules. Loss of CCDC57 causes defects in centriole duplication and results in a failure to localize CEP63 and CEP152 to the centrosome. Additionally, CCDC57 depletion perturbs mitotic progression both in wild-type and centriole-less cells. Importantly, its centrosome-targeting region is required for its interaction with CEP63 and functions during centriole duplication and cilium assembly, whereas the microtubule-targeting region is required for its mitotic functions. Together, our results identify CCDC57 as a critical interface between centrosome and microtubule-mediated cellular processes that are deregulated in microcephaly."	1
"32719012"	"A cytoskeletal protein complex is essential for division of intracellular amastigotes of <i>Leishmania mexicana</i>.Previous studies in <i>Leishmania mexicana</i> have identified the cytoskeletal protein KHARON as being important for both flagellar trafficking of the glucose transporter GT1 and for successful cytokinesis and survival of infectious amastigote forms inside mammalian macrophages. KHARON is located in three distinct regions of the cytoskeleton: the base of the flagellum, the subpellicular microtubules, and the mitotic spindle. To deconvolve the different functions for KHARON, we have identified two partner proteins, KHAP1 and KHAP2, which associate with KHARON. KHAP1 is located only in the subpellicular microtubules, whereas KHAP2 is located at the subpellicular microtubules and the base of the flagellum. Both <i>KHAP1</i> and <i>KHAP2</i> null mutants are unable to execute cytokinesis but are able to traffic GT1 to the flagellum. These results confirm that KHARON assembles into distinct functional complexes and that the subpellicular complex is essential for cytokinesis and viability of disease-causing amastigotes but not for flagellar membrane trafficking."	0
"31422874"	"Naa10p Inhibits Beige Adipocyte-Mediated Thermogenesis through N-α-acetylation of Pgc1α.Diet-induced obesity can be caused by impaired thermogenesis of beige adipocytes, the brown-like adipocytes in white adipose tissue (WAT). Promoting brown-like features in WAT has been an attractive therapeutic approach for obesity. However, the mechanism underlying beige adipocyte formation is largely unknown. N-α-acetyltransferase 10 protein (Naa10p) catalyzes N-α-acetylation of nascent proteins, and overexpression of human Naa10p is linked to cancer development. Here, we report that both conventional and adipose-specific Naa10p deletions in mice result in increased energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and beige adipocyte differentiation. Mechanistically, Naa10p acetylates the N terminus of Pgc1α, which prevents Pgc1α from interacting with Pparγ to activate key genes, such as Ucp1, involved in beige adipocyte function. Consistently, fat tissues of obese human individuals show higher NAA10 expression. Thus, Naa10p-mediated N-terminal acetylation of Pgc1α downregulates thermogenic gene expression, making inhibition of Naa10p enzymatic activity a potential strategy for treating obesity."	1
"32165409"	"<i>Drosophila</i> estrogen-related receptor directs a transcriptional switch that supports adult glycolysis and lipogenesis.Metabolism and development must be closely coupled to meet the changing physiological needs of each stage in the life cycle. The molecular mechanisms that link these pathways, however, remain poorly understood. Here we show that the <i>Drosophila</i> estrogen-related receptor (<i>dERR</i>) directs a transcriptional switch in mid-pupae that promotes glucose oxidation and lipogenesis in young adults. <i>dERR</i> mutant adults are viable but display reduced locomotor activity, susceptibility to starvation, elevated glucose, and an almost complete lack of stored triglycerides. Molecular profiling by RNA-seq, ChIP-seq, and metabolomics revealed that glycolytic and pentose phosphate pathway genes are induced by dERR, and their reduced expression in mutants is accompanied by elevated glycolytic intermediates, reduced TCA cycle intermediates, and reduced levels of long chain fatty acids. Unexpectedly, we found that the central pathways of energy metabolism, including glycolysis, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and electron transport chain, are coordinately induced at the transcriptional level in mid-pupae and maintained into adulthood, and this response is partially dependent on <i>dERR</i>, leading to the metabolic defects observed in mutants. Our data support the model that <i>dERR</i> contributes to a transcriptional switch during pupal development that establishes the metabolic state of the adult fly."	0
"32320657"	"Profiling of Small Ribosomal Subunits Reveals Modes and Regulation of Translation Initiation.Translation initiation is often attributed as the rate-determining step of eukaryotic protein synthesis and key to gene expression control. Despite this centrality, the series of steps involved in this process is poorly understood. Here, we capture the transcriptome-wide occupancy of ribosomes across all stages of translation initiation, enabling us to characterize the transcriptome-wide dynamics of ribosome recruitment to mRNAs, scanning across 5' UTRs and stop codon recognition, in a higher eukaryote. We provide mechanistic evidence for ribosomes attaching to the mRNA by threading the mRNA through the small subunit. Moreover, we identify features that regulate the recruitment and processivity of scanning ribosomes and redefine optimal initiation contexts. Our approach enables deconvoluting translation initiation into separate stages and identifying regulators at each step."	0
"32142689"	"PD-1: A Driver or Passenger of T Cell Exhaustion?Okazaki and colleagues report that PD-1 signaling mainly restrains effector function at the early stage of T cell activation. The authors find that cytokine genes require strong antigen stimulation and are more susceptible to PD-1 inhibition."	0
"32532820"	"Mediator complex subunit 16 is down-regulated in papillary thyroid cancer, leading to increased transforming growth factor-β signaling and radioiodine resistance.Mediator complex subunit 16 (MED16) is a component of the mediator complex and functions as a coactivator in transcriptional events at almost all RNA polymerase II-dependent genes. In this study, we report that the expression of MED16 is markedly decreased in papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) tumors compared with normal thyroid tissues. <i>In vitro</i>, MED16 overexpression in PTC cells significantly inhibited cell migration, enhanced sodium/iodide symporter expression and iodine uptake, and decreased resistance to radioactive <sup>131</sup>I (RAI). Conversely, PTC cells in which MED16 had been further knocked down (MED16<sup>KD</sup>) exhibited enhanced cell migration, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and RAI resistance, accompanied by decreased sodium/iodide symporter levels. Moreover, cell signaling through transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) was highly activated after the MED16 knockdown. Similar results were obtained in MED12<sup>KD</sup> PTC cells, and a co-immunoprecipitation experiment verified interactions between MED16 and MED12 and between MED16 and TGF-βR2. Of note, the application of LY2157299, a potent inhibitor of TGF-β signaling, significantly attenuated MED16<sup>KD</sup>-induced RAI resistance both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> In conclusion, our findings indicate that MED16 reduction in PTC contributes to tumor progression and RAI resistance via the activation of the TGF-β pathway."	1
"32035036"	"Dopamine Uses the DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A Signaling Axis to Block the TRAF6-Mediated NF-κB Pathway and Suppress Systemic Inflammation.The functional relevance and mechanistic basis of the effects of the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) on inflammation remain unclear. Here we reveal that DA inhibited TLR2-induced NF-κB activation and inflammation via the DRD5 receptor in macrophages. We found that the DRD5 receptor, via the EFD and IYX(X)I/L motifs in its CT and IC3 loop, respectively, can directly recruit TRAF6 and its negative regulator ARRB2 to form a multi-protein complex also containing downstream signaling proteins, such as TAK1, IKKs, and PP2A, that impairs TRAF6-mediated activation of NF-κB and expression of pro-inflammatory genes. Furthermore, the DA-DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A signaling axis can prevent S. aureus-induced inflammation and protect mice against S. aureus-induced sepsis and meningitis after DA treatment. Collectively, these findings provide the first demonstration of DA-DRD5 signaling acting to control inflammation and a detailed delineation of the underlying mechanism and identify the DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A axis as a potential target for future therapy of inflammation-associated diseases such as meningitis and sepsis."	1
"31995759"	"PRMT1 Is Recruited via DNA-PK to Chromatin Where It Sustains the Senescence-Associated Secretory Phenotype in Response to Cisplatin.Protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) is overexpressed in various human cancers and linked to poor response to chemotherapy. Various PRMT1 inhibitors are currently under development; yet, we do not fully understand the mechanisms underpinning PRMT1 involvement in tumorigenesis and chemoresistance. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we identified PRMT1 as regulator of arginine methylation in ovarian cancer cells treated with cisplatin. We showed that DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) binds to and phosphorylates PRMT1 in response to cisplatin, inducing its chromatin recruitment and redirecting its enzymatic activity toward Arg3 of histone H4 (H4R3). On chromatin, the DNA-PK/PRMT1 axis induces senescence-associated secretory phenotype through H4R3me2a deposition at pro-inflammatory gene promoters. Finally, PRMT1 inhibition reduces the clonogenic growth of cancer cells exposed to low doses of cisplatin, sensitizing them to apoptosis. While unravelling the role of PRMT1 in response to genotoxic agents, our findings indicate the possibility of targeting PRMT1 to overcome chemoresistance in cancer."	1
"32433973"	"Ubiquitylation of the ER-Shaping Protein Lunapark via the CRL3<sup>KLHL12</sup> Ubiquitin Ligase Complex.Cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) control key cellular processes by promoting ubiquitylation of a multitude of soluble cytosolic and nuclear proteins. Subsets of CRL complexes are recruited and activated locally at cellular membranes; however, few CRL functions and substrates at these distinct cellular compartments are known. Here, we use a proteomic screen to identify proteins that are ubiquitylated at cellular membranes and found that Lunapark, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-shaping protein localized to ER three-way junctions, is ubiquitylated by the CRL3<sup>KLHL12</sup> ubiquitin ligase. We demonstrate that Lunapark interacts with mechanistic target of rapamycin complex-1 (mTORC1), a central cellular regulator that coordinates growth and metabolism with environmental conditions. We show that mTORC1 binds Lunapark specifically at three-way junctions, and lysosomes, where mTORC1 is activated, make contact with three-way junctions where Lunapark resides. Inhibition of Lunapark ubiquitylation results in neurodevelopmental defects indicating that KLHL12-dependent ubiquitylation of Lunapark is required for normal growth and development."	1
"31995766"	"Circuit Integration Initiation of New Hippocampal Neurons in the Adult Brain.In the adult brain, new dentate granule cells integrate into neural circuits and participate in hippocampal functioning. However, when and how they initiate this integration remain poorly understood. Using retroviral and live-imaging methods, we find that new neurons undergo neurite remodeling for competitive horizontal-to-radial repositioning in the dentate gyrus prior to circuit integration. Gene expression profiling, lipidomics analysis, and molecular interrogation of new neurons during this period reveal a rapid activation of sphingolipid signaling mediated by sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1. Genetic manipulation of this G protein-coupled receptor reveals its requirement for successful repositioning of new neurons. This receptor is also activated by hippocampus-engaged behaviors, which enhances repositioning efficiency. These findings reveal that activity-dependent sphingolipid signaling regulates cellular repositioning of new dentate granule cells. The competitive horizontal-to-radial repositioning of new neurons may provide a gating strategy in the adult brain to limit the integration of new neurons into pre-existing circuits."	0
"32433977"	"β-Glucan Induces Protective Trained Immunity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection: A Key Role for IL-1.β-glucan is a potent inducer of epigenetic and functional reprogramming of innate immune cells, a process called ""trained immunity,"" resulting in an enhanced host response against secondary infections. We investigate whether β-glucan exposure confers protection against pulmonary Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. β-glucan induces trained immunity via histone modifications at gene promoters in human monocytes, which is accompanied by the enhanced production of proinflammatory cytokines upon secondary Mtb challenge and inhibition of Mtb growth. Mice treated with β-glucan are significantly protected against pulmonary Mtb infection, which is associated with the expansion of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells in the bone marrow and increased myelopoiesis. The protective signature of β-glucan is mediated via IL-1 signaling, as β-glucan shows no protection in mice lacking a functional IL-1 receptor (IL1R<sup>-/-</sup>). The administration of β-glucan may be used as a novel strategy in the treatment of mycobacterial infections and possibly as an adjuvant to improve anti-tuberculosis vaccines."	0
"32636305"	"Two highly related odorant receptors specifically detect α-bile acid pheromones in sea lamprey (<i>Petromyzon marinus</i>).Pheromones play critical roles in habitat identification and reproductive behavior synchronization in the sea lamprey (<i>Petromyzon marinus</i>). The bile acid 3-keto petromyzonol sulfate (3kPZS) is a major component of the sex pheromone mixture from male sea lamprey that induces specific olfactory and behavioral responses in conspecific individuals. Olfactory receptors interact directly with pheromones, which is the first step in their detection, but identifying the cognate receptors of specific pheromones is often challenging. Here, we deorphanized two highly related odorant receptors (ORs), OR320a and OR320b, of <i>P. marinus</i> that respond to 3kPZS. In a heterologous expression system coupled to a cAMP-responsive CRE-luciferase, OR320a and OR320b specifically responded to C<sub>24</sub> 5α-bile acids, and both receptors were activated by the same set of 3kPZS analogs. OR320a displayed larger responses to all 3kPZS analogs than did OR320b. This difference appeared to be largely determined by a single amino acid residue, Cys-79<sup>2.56</sup>, the C-terminal sixth residue relative to the most conserved residue in the second transmembrane domain (2.56) of OR320a. This region of TM2 residues 2.56-2.60 apparently is critical for the detection of steroid compounds by odorant receptors in lamprey, zebrafish, and humans. Finally, we identified OR320 orthologs in Japanese lamprey (<i>Lethenteron camtschaticum</i>), suggesting that the OR320 family may be widely present in lamprey species and that OR320 may be under purifying selection. Our results provide a system to examine the origin of olfactory steroid detection in vertebrates and to define a highly conserved molecular mechanism for steroid-ligand detection by G protein-coupled receptors."	0
"32605925"	"A distinct talin2 structure directs isoform specificity in cell adhesion.Integrin receptors regulate normal cellular processes such as signaling, cell migration, adhesion to the extracellular matrix, and leukocyte function. Talin recruitment to the membrane is necessary for its binding to and activation of integrin. Vertebrates have two highly conserved talin homologs that differ in their expression patterns. The F1-F3 FERM subdomains of cytoskeletal proteins resemble a cloverleaf, but in talin1, its F1 subdomain and additional F0 subdomain align more linearly with its F2 and F3 subdomains. Here, we present the talin2 crystal structure, revealing that its F0-F1 di-subdomain displays another unprecedented constellation, whereby the F0-F1-F2 adopts a new cloverleaf-like arrangement. Using multiangle light scattering (MALS), fluorescence lifetime imaging (FLIM), and FRET analyses, we found that substituting the corresponding residues in talin2 that abolish lipid binding in talin1 disrupt the binding of talin to the membrane, focal adhesion formation, and cell spreading. Our results provide the molecular details of the functions of specific talin isoforms in cell adhesion."	0
"32640227"	"Excessive Astrocytic GABA Causes Cortical Hypometabolism and Impedes Functional Recovery after Subcortical Stroke.Glucose hypometabolism in cortical structures after functional disconnection is frequently reported in patients with white matter diseases such as subcortical stroke. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms have been poorly elucidated. Here we show, in an animal model of internal capsular infarct, that GABA-synthesizing reactive astrocytes in distant cortical areas cause glucose hypometabolism via tonic inhibition of neighboring neurons. We find that reversal of aberrant astrocytic GABA synthesis, by pharmacological inhibition and astrocyte-specific gene silencing of MAO-B, reverses the reduction in cortical glucose metabolism. Moreover, induction of aberrant astrocytic GABA synthesis by cortical injection of putrescine or adenovirus recapitulates cortical hypometabolism. Furthermore, MAO-B inhibition causes a remarkable recovery from post-stroke motor deficits when combined with a rehabilitation regimen. Collectively, our data indicate that cortical glucose hypometabolism in subcortical stroke is caused by aberrant astrocytic GABA and MAO-B inhibition and that attenuating cortical hypometabolism can be a therapeutic approach in subcortical stroke."	0
"32541878"	"Dissecting intratumour heterogeneity of nodal B-cell lymphomas at the transcriptional, genetic and drug-response levels.Tumour heterogeneity encompasses both the malignant cells and their microenvironment. While heterogeneity between individual patients is known to affect the efficacy of cancer therapy, most personalized treatment approaches do not account for intratumour heterogeneity. We addressed this issue by studying the heterogeneity of nodal B-cell lymphomas by single-cell RNA-sequencing and transcriptome-informed flow cytometry. We identified transcriptionally distinct malignant subpopulations and compared their drug-response and genomic profiles. Malignant subpopulations from the same patient responded strikingly differently to anti-cancer drugs ex vivo, which recapitulated subpopulation-specific drug sensitivity during in vivo treatment. Infiltrating T cells represented the majority of non-malignant cells, whose gene-expression signatures were similar across all donors, whereas the frequencies of T-cell subsets varied significantly between the donors. Our data provide insights into the heterogeneity of nodal B-cell lymphomas and highlight the relevance of intratumour heterogeneity for personalized cancer therapy."	0
"32111741"	"The Parkinson's disease-associated kinase LRRK2 regulates genes required for cell adhesion, polarization, and chemotaxis in activated murine macrophages.Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (<i>LRRK2</i>) encodes a complex protein that includes kinase and GTPase domains. Genome-wide association studies have identified dominant <i>LRRK2</i> alleles that predispose their carriers to late-onset idiotypic Parkinson's disease (PD) and also to autoimmune disorders such as Crohn's disease. Considerable evidence indicates that PD initiation and progression involve activation of innate immune functions in microglia, which are brain-resident macrophages. Here we asked whether LRRK2 modifies inflammatory signaling and how this modification might contribute to PD and Crohn's disease. We used RNA-Seq-based high-resolution transcriptomics to compare gene expression in activated primary macrophages derived from WT and <i>Lrrk2</i> knockout mice. Remarkably, expression of a single gene, Rap guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (<i>Rapgef3</i>), was strongly up-regulated in the absence of LRRK2 and down-regulated in its presence. We observed similar regulation of <i>Rapgef3</i> expression in cells treated with a highly specific inhibitor of LRRK2 protein kinase activity. <i>Rapgef3</i> encodes an exchange protein, activated by cAMP 1 (EPAC-1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor that activates the small GTPase Rap-1. Rap-1 mediates cell adhesion, polarization, and directional motility, and our results indicate that LRRK2 modulates chemotaxis of microglia and macrophages. Dominant PD-associated <i>LRRK2</i> alleles may suppress EPAC-1 activity, further restricting motility and preventing efficient migration of microglia to sites of neuronal damage. Functional analysis <i>in vivo</i> in a subclinical infection model also indicated that Lrrk2 subtly modifies the inflammatory response. These results indicate that LRRK2 modulates the expression of genes involved in murine immune cell chemotaxis."	1
"32521276"	"Unique and Shared Roles for Histone H3K36 Methylation States in Transcription Regulation Functions.Set2 co-transcriptionally methylates lysine 36 of histone H3 (H3K36), producing mono-, di-, and trimethylation (H3K36me1/2/3). These modifications recruit or repel chromatin effector proteins important for transcriptional fidelity, mRNA splicing, and DNA repair. However, it was not known whether the different methylation states of H3K36 have distinct biological functions. Here, we use engineered forms of Set2 that produce different lysine methylation states to identify unique and shared functions for H3K36 modifications. Although H3K36me1/2 and H3K36me3 are functionally redundant in many SET2 deletion phenotypes, we found that H3K36me3 has a unique function related to Bur1 kinase activity and FACT (facilitates chromatin transcription) complex function. Further, during nutrient stress, either H3K36me1/2 or H3K36me3 represses high levels of histone acetylation and cryptic transcription that arises from within genes. Our findings uncover the potential for the regulation of diverse chromatin functions by different H3K36 methylation states."	0
"32690606"	"Tectorigenin enhances PDX1 expression and protects pancreatic β-cells by activating ERK and reducing ER stress.Pancreas/duodenum homeobox protein 1 (PDX1) is an important transcription factor that regulates islet β-cell proliferation, differentiation, and function. Reduced expression of PDX1 is thought to contribute to β-cell loss and dysfunction in diabetes. Thus, promoting PDX1 expression can be an effective strategy to preserve β-cell mass and function. Previously, we established a <i>PDX1</i> promoter-dependent luciferase system to screen agents that can promote PDX1 expression. Natural compound tectorigenin (TG) was identified as a promising candidate that could enhance the activity of the promoter for the <i>PDX1</i> gene. In this study, we first demonstrated that TG could promote the expression of PDX1 in β-cells via activating extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK), as indicated by increased phosphorylation of ERK; this effect was observed under either normal or glucotoxic/lipotoxic conditions. We then found that TG could suppress induced apoptosis and improved the viability of β-cells under glucotoxicity and lipotoxicity by activation of ERK and reduction of reactive oxygen species and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. These effects held true <i>in vivo</i> as well: prophylactic or therapeutic use of TG could obviously inhibit ER stress and decrease islet β-cell apoptosis in the pancreas of mice given a high-fat/high-sucrose diet (HFHSD), thus dramatically maintaining or restoring β-cell mass and islet size, respectively. Accordingly, both prophylactic and therapeutic use of TG improved HFHSD-impaired glucose metabolism in mice, as evidenced by ameliorating hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance. Taken together, TG, as an agent promoting PDX1 expression exhibits strong protective effects on islet β-cells both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i>."	1
"32325029"	"Bump-and-Hole Engineering Identifies Specific Substrates of Glycosyltransferases in Living Cells.Studying posttranslational modifications classically relies on experimental strategies that oversimplify the complex biosynthetic machineries of living cells. Protein glycosylation contributes to essential biological processes, but correlating glycan structure, underlying protein, and disease-relevant biosynthetic regulation is currently elusive. Here, we engineer living cells to tag glycans with editable chemical functionalities while providing information on biosynthesis, physiological context, and glycan fine structure. We introduce a non-natural substrate biosynthetic pathway and use engineered glycosyltransferases to incorporate chemically tagged sugars into the cell surface glycome of the living cell. We apply the strategy to a particularly redundant yet disease-relevant human glycosyltransferase family, the polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyl transferases. This approach bestows a gain-of-chemical-functionality modification on cells, where the products of individual glycosyltransferases can be selectively characterized or manipulated to understand glycan contribution to major physiological processes."	0
"32592682"	"An Insulin-Sensitive Circular RNA that Regulates Lifespan in Drosophila.Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are abundant and accumulate with age in neurons of diverse species. However, only few circRNAs have been functionally characterized, and their role during aging has not been addressed. Here, we use transcriptome profiling during aging and find that accumulation of circRNAs is slowed down in long-lived insulin mutant flies. Next, we characterize the in vivo function of a circRNA generated by the sulfateless gene (circSfl), which is consistently upregulated, particularly in the brain and muscle, of diverse long-lived insulin mutants. Strikingly, lifespan extension of insulin mutants is dependent on circSfl, and overexpression of circSfl alone is sufficient to extend the lifespan. Moreover, circSfl is translated into a protein that shares the N terminus and potentially some functions with the full-length Sfl protein encoded by the host gene. Our study demonstrates that insulin signaling affects global circRNA accumulation and reveals an important role of circSfl during aging in vivo."	0
"31995750"	"Cross-talk between CD38 and TTP Is Essential for Resolution of Inflammation during Microbial Sepsis.The resolution phase of acute inflammation is essential for tissue homeostasis, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We demonstrate that resolution of inflammation involves interactions between CD38 and tristetraprolin (TTP). During the onset of acute inflammation, CD38 levels are increased, leading to the production of Ca<sup>2+</sup>-signaling messengers, nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP), ADP ribose (ADPR), and cyclic ADPR (cADPR) from NAD(P)<sup>+</sup>. To initiate the onset of resolution, TTP expression is increased by the second messengers, NAADP and cADPR, which downregulate CD38 expression. The activation of TTP by Sirt1-dependent deacetylation, in response to increased NAD<sup>+</sup> levels, suppresses the acute inflammatory response and decreases Rheb expression, inhibits mTORC1, and induces autophagolysosomes for bacterial clearance. TTP may represent a mechanistic target of anti-inflammatory agents, such as carbon monoxide. TTP mediates crosstalk between acute inflammation and autophagic clearance of bacteria from damaged tissue in the resolution of inflammation during sepsis."	1
"31995728"	"AMPK, a Regulator of Metabolism and Autophagy, Is Activated by Lysosomal Damage via a Novel Galectin-Directed Ubiquitin Signal Transduction System.AMPK is a central regulator of metabolism and autophagy. Here we show how lysosomal damage activates AMPK. This occurs via a hitherto unrecognized signal transduction system whereby cytoplasmic sentinel lectins detect membrane damage leading to ubiquitination responses. Absence of Galectin 9 (Gal9) or loss of its capacity to recognize lumenal glycans exposed during lysosomal membrane damage abrogate such ubiquitination responses. Proteomic analyses with APEX2-Gal9 have revealed global changes within the Gal9 interactome during lysosomal damage. Gal9 association with lysosomal glycoproteins increases whereas interactions with a newly identified Gal9 partner, deubiquitinase USP9X, diminishes upon lysosomal injury. In response to damage, Gal9 displaces USP9X from complexes with TAK1 and promotes K63 ubiquitination of TAK1 thus activating AMPK on damaged lysosomes. This triggers autophagy and contributes to autophagic control of membrane-damaging microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Thus, galectin and ubiquitin systems converge to activate AMPK and autophagy during endomembrane homeostasis."	1
"32640217"	"Extracellular Granzyme A Promotes Colorectal Cancer Development by Enhancing Gut Inflammation.If not properly regulated, the inflammatory immune response can promote carcinogenesis, as evident in colorectal cancer (CRC). Aiming to gain mechanistic insight into the link between inflammation and CRC, we perform transcriptomics analysis of human CRC, identifying a strong correlation between expression of the serine protease granzyme A (GzmA) and inflammation. In a dextran sodium sulfate and azoxymethane (DSS/AOM) mouse model, deficiency and pharmacological inhibition of extracellular GzmA both attenuate gut inflammation and prevent CRC development, including the initial steps of cell transformation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, extracellular GzmA induces NF-κB-dependent IL-6 production in macrophages, which in turn promotes STAT3 activation in cultured CRC cells. Accordingly, colon tissues from DSS/AOM-treated, GzmA-deficient animals present reduced levels of pSTAT3. By identifying GzmA as a proinflammatory protease that promotes CRC development, these findings provide information on mechanisms that link immune cell infiltration to cancer progression and present GzmA as a therapeutic target for CRC."	1
"32402277"	"Nutrient-Driven O-GlcNAcylation Controls DNA Damage Repair Signaling and Stem/Progenitor Cell Homeostasis.Stem/progenitor cells exhibit high proliferation rates, elevated nutrient uptake, altered metabolic flux, and stress-induced genome instability. O-GlcNAcylation is an essential post-translational modification mediated by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) and O-GlcNAcase (OGA), which act in a nutrient- and stress-responsive manner. The precise role of O-GlcNAc in adult stem cells and the relationship between O-GlcNAc and the DNA damage response (DDR) is poorly understood. Here, we show that hyper-O-GlcNacylation leads to elevated insulin signaling, hyperproliferation, and DDR activation that mimic the glucose- and oxidative-stress-induced response. We discover a feedback mechanism involving key downstream effectors of DDR, ATM, ATR, and CHK1/2 that regulates OGT stability to promote O-GlcNAcylation and elevate DDR. This O-GlcNAc-dependent regulatory pathway is critical for maintaining gut homeostasis in Drosophila and the DDR in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Our findings reveal a conserved mechanistic link among O-GlcNAc cycling, stem cell self-renewal, and DDR with profound implications for stem-cell-derived diseases including cancer."	1
"31901447"	"Lipid Droplet-Derived Monounsaturated Fatty Acids Traffic via PLIN5 to Allosterically Activate SIRT1.Lipid droplets (LDs) provide a reservoir for triacylglycerol storage and are a central hub for fatty acid trafficking and signaling in cells. Lipolysis promotes mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism via a SIRT1/PGC-1α/PPARα-dependent pathway through an unknown mechanism. Herein, we identify that monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) allosterically activate SIRT1 toward select peptide-substrates such as PGC-1α. MUFAs enhance PGC-1α/PPARα signaling and promote oxidative metabolism in cells and animal models in a SIRT1-dependent manner. Moreover, we characterize the LD protein perilipin 5 (PLIN5), which is known to enhance mitochondrial biogenesis and function, to be a fatty-acid-binding protein that preferentially binds LD-derived monounsaturated fatty acids and traffics them to the nucleus following cAMP/PKA-mediated lipolytic stimulation. Thus, these studies identify the first-known endogenous allosteric modulators of SIRT1 and characterize a LD-nuclear signaling axis that underlies the known metabolic benefits of MUFAs and PLIN5."	1
"32402252"	"KAP1 Is a Chromatin Reader that Couples Steps of RNA Polymerase II Transcription to Sustain Oncogenic Programs.Precise control of the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) cycle, including pausing and pause release, maintains transcriptional homeostasis and organismal functions. Despite previous work to understand individual transcription steps, we reveal a mechanism that integrates RNA Pol II cycle transitions. Surprisingly, KAP1/TRIM28 uses a previously uncharacterized chromatin reader cassette to bind hypo-acetylated histone 4 tails at promoters, guaranteeing continuous progression of RNA Pol II entry to and exit from the pause state. Upon chromatin docking, KAP1 first associates with RNA Pol II and then recruits a pathway-specific transcription factor (SMAD2) in response to cognate ligands, enabling gene-selective CDK9-dependent pause release. This coupling mechanism is exploited by tumor cells to aberrantly sustain transcriptional programs commonly dysregulated in cancer patients. The discovery of a factor integrating transcription steps expands the functional repertoire by which chromatin readers operate and provides mechanistic understanding of transcription regulation, offering alternative therapeutic opportunities to target transcriptional dysregulation."	1
"32362315"	"Mechanistic Insight into Crossing over during Mouse Meiosis.Crossover recombination is critical for meiotic chromosome segregation, but how mammalian crossing over is accomplished is poorly understood. Here, we illuminate how strands exchange during meiotic recombination in male mice by analyzing patterns of heteroduplex DNA in recombinant molecules preserved by the mismatch correction deficiency of Msh2<sup>-/-</sup> mutants. Surprisingly, MSH2-dependent recombination suppression was not evident. However, a substantial fraction of crossover products retained heteroduplex DNA, and some provided evidence of MSH2-independent correction. Biased crossover resolution was observed, consistent with asymmetry between DNA ends in earlier intermediates. Many crossover products yielded no heteroduplex DNA, suggesting dismantling by D-loop migration. Unlike the complexity of crossovers in yeast, these simple modifications of the original double-strand break repair model-asymmetry in recombination intermediates and D-loop migration-may be sufficient to explain most meiotic crossing over in mice while also addressing long-standing questions related to Holliday junction resolution."	0
"32521269"	"The Protein Arginine Methyltransferase PRMT8 and Substrate G3BP1 Control Rac1-PAK1 Signaling and Actin Cytoskeleton for Dendritic Spine Maturation.Excitatory synapses of neurons are located on dendritic spines. Spine maturation is essential for the stability of synapses and memory consolidation, and overproduction of the immature filopodia is associated with brain disorders. The structure and function of synapses can be modulated by protein post-translational modification (PTM). Arginine methylation is a major PTM that regulates chromatin structure, transcription, and splicing within the nucleus. Here we find that the protein arginine methyltransferase PRMT8 is present at neuronal synapses and its expression is upregulated in the hippocampus when dendritic spine maturation occurs. Depletion of PRMT8 leads to overabundance of filopodia and mis-localization of excitatory synapses. Mechanistically, PRMT8 promotes dendritic spine morphology through methylation of the dendritic RNA-binding protein G3BP1 and suppression of the Rac1-PAK1 signaling pathway to control synaptic actin dynamics. Our findings unravel arginine methylation as a crucial regulatory mechanism for actin cytoskeleton during synapse development."	1
"31628042"	"PTPS Facilitates Compartmentalized LTBP1 S-Nitrosylation and Promotes Tumor Growth under Hypoxia.GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH), 6-pyruvoyltetrahydropterin synthase (PTPS), and sepiapterin reductase (SR) are sequentially responsible for de novo synthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), a known co-factor for nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The implication of BH4-biosynthesis process in tumorigenesis remains to be investigated. Here, we show that PTPS, which is highly expressed in early-stage colorectal cancer, is phosphorylated at Thr 58 by AMPK under hypoxia; this phosphorylation promotes PTPS binding to LTBP1 and subsequently drives iNOS-mediated LTBP1 S-nitrosylation through proximal-coupling BH4 production within the PTPS/iNOS/LTBP1 complex. In turn, LTBP1 S-nitrosylation results in proteasome-dependent LTBP1 protein degradation, revealing an inverse relationship between PTPS pT58 and LTBP1 stability. Physiologically, the repressive effect of PTPS on LTBP1 leads to impaired transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) secretion and thereby maintains tumor cell growth under hypoxia. Our findings illustrate a molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of LTBP1-TGF-β signaling by the BH4-biosynthesis pathway and highlight the specific requirement of PTPS for tumor growth."	1
"32075771"	"A Two-Layered Targeting Mechanism Underlies Nuclear RNA Sorting by the Human Exosome.Degradation of transcripts in human nuclei is primarily facilitated by the RNA exosome. To obtain substrate specificity, the exosome is aided by adaptors; in the nucleoplasm, those adaptors are the nuclear exosome-targeting (NEXT) complex and the poly(A) (pA) exosome-targeting (PAXT) connection. How these adaptors guide exosome targeting remains enigmatic. Employing high-resolution 3' end sequencing, we demonstrate that NEXT substrates arise from heterogenous and predominantly pA<sup>-</sup> 3' ends often covering kilobase-wide genomic regions. In contrast, PAXT targets harbor well-defined pA<sup>+</sup> 3' ends defined by canonical pA site use. Irrespective of this clear division, NEXT and PAXT act redundantly in two ways: (1) regional redundancy, where the majority of exosome-targeted transcription units produce NEXT- and PAXT-sensitive RNA isoforms, and (2) isoform redundancy, where the PAXT connection ensures fail-safe decay of post-transcriptionally polyadenylated NEXT targets. In conjunction, this provides a two-layered targeting mechanism for efficient nuclear sorting of the human transcriptome."	0
"32616653"	"Structural and catalytic roles of the human 18<i>S</i> rRNA methyltransferases DIMT1 in ribosome assembly and translation.rRNA-modifying enzymes participate in ribosome assembly. However, whether the catalytic activities of these enzymes are important for the ribosome assembly and other cellular processes is not fully understood. Here, we report the crystal structure of WT human dimethyladenosine transferase 1 (DIMT1), an 18<i>S</i> rRNA <i>N</i><sup>6,6</sup>-dimethyladenosine (m<sub>2</sub><sup>6,6</sup>A) methyltransferase, and results obtained with a catalytically inactive DIMT1 variant. We found that <i>DIMT1</i><sup>+/-</sup> heterozygous HEK 293T cells have a significantly decreased 40S fraction and reduced protein synthesis but no major changes in m<sub>2</sub><sup>6,6</sup>A levels in 18<i>S</i> rRNA. Expression of a catalytically inactive variant, DIMT1-E85A, in WT and <i>DIMT1</i><sup>+/-</sup> cells significantly decreased m<sub>2</sub><sup>6,6</sup>A levels in 18S rRNA, indicating a dominant-negative effect of this variant on m<sub>2</sub><sup>6,6</sup>A levels. However, expression of the DIMT1-E85A variant restored the defects in 40S levels. Of note, unlike WT DIMT1, DIMT1-E85A could not revert the defects in protein translation. We found that the differences between this variant and the WT enzyme extended to translation fidelity and gene expression patterns in DNA damage response pathways. These results suggest that the catalytic activity of DIMT1 is involved in protein translation and that the overall protein scaffold of DIMT1, regardless of the catalytic activity on m<sub>2</sub><sup>6,6</sup>A in 18<i>S</i> rRNA, is essential for 40S assembly."	0
"32521274"	"Slow Receptor Binding of the Noncytopathic HIV-2<sub>UC1</sub> Envs Is Balanced by Long-Lived Activation State and Efficient Fusion Activity.Many HIV strains downregulate the levels of CD4 receptor on the surface of infected cells to prevent superinfection. In contrast, the rare HIV-2<sub>UC1</sub> strain is noncytopathic and has no effect on CD4 expression in infected cells but still replicates as efficiently as more cytopathic strains in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Here, we show that HIV-2<sub>UC1</sub> Env interactions with the CD4 receptor exhibit slow association kinetics, whereas the dissociation kinetics is within the range of cytopathic strains. Despite the resulting 10- to 100-fold decrease in binding affinity, HIV-2<sub>UC1</sub> Envs exhibit long-lived activation state and efficient fusion activity. These observations suggest that HIV-2<sub>UC1</sub> Envs evolved to balance low affinity with an improved and readily triggerable molecular machinery to mediate entry. Resistance to cold exposure, similar to many primary HIV-1 isolates, and to sCD4 neutralization suggests that HIV-2<sub>UC1</sub> Envs preferentially sample a closed Env conformation. Our data provide insights into the mechanism of HIV entry."	0
"32460029"	"Apical Restriction of the Planar Cell Polarity Component VANGL in Pancreatic Ducts Is Required to Maintain Epithelial Integrity.Cell polarity is essential for the architecture and function of numerous epithelial tissues. Here, we show that apical restriction of planar cell polarity (PCP) components is necessary for the maintenance of epithelial integrity. Using the mammalian pancreas as a model, we find that components of the core PCP pathway, such as the transmembrane protein Van Gogh-like (VANGL), become apically restricted over a period of several days. Expansion of VANGL localization to the basolateral membranes of progenitors leads to their death and disruption of the epithelial integrity. VANGL basolateral expansion does not affect apico-basal polarity but acts in the cells where Vangl is mislocalized by reducing Dishevelled and its downstream target ROCK. This reduction in ROCK activity culminates in progenitor cell egression, death, and eventually pancreatic hypoplasia. Thus, precise spatiotemporal modulation of VANGL-dependent PCP signaling is crucial for proper pancreatic morphogenesis."	0
"32579941"	"Targeting Bim via a lncRNA Morrbid Regulates the Survival of Preleukemic and Leukemic Cells.Inhibition of anti-apoptotic proteins BCL-2 and MCL-1 to release pro-apoptotic protein BIM and reactivate cell death could potentially be an efficient strategy for the treatment of leukemia. Here, we show that a lncRNA, MORRBID, a selective transcriptional repressor of BIM, is overexpressed in human acute myeloid leukemia (AML), which is associated with poor overall survival. In both human and animal models, MORRBID hyperactivation correlates with two recurrent AML drivers, TET2 and FLT3<sup>ITD</sup>. Mice with individual mutations of Tet2 or Flt3<sup>ITD</sup> develop features of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) and myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN), respectively, and combined presence results in AML. We observe increased levels of Morrbid in murine models of CMML, MPN, and AML. Functionally, loss of Morrbid in these models induces increased expression of Bim and cell death in immature and mature myeloid cells, which results in reduced infiltration of leukemic cells in tissues and prolongs the survival of AML mice."	0
"32579921"	"The Kinase Activity of Drosophila BubR1 Is Required for Insulin Signaling-Dependent Stem Cell Maintenance.As a core component of the mitotic checkpoint complex, BubR1 has a modular organization of molecular functions, with KEN box and other motifs at the N terminus inhibiting the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome, and a kinase domain at the C terminus, whose function remains unsettled, especially at organismal levels. We generate knock-in BubR1 mutations in the Drosophila genome to separately disrupt the KEN box and the kinase domain. All of the mutants are homozygously viable and fertile and show no defects in mitotic progression. The mutants without kinase activity have an increased lifespan and phenotypic changes associated with attenuated insulin signaling, including reduced InR on the cell membrane, weakened PI3K and AKT activity, and elevated expression of dFoxO targets. The BubR1 kinase-dead mutants have a reduced cap cell number in female germaria, which can be rescued by expressing a constitutively active InR. We conclude that one major physiological role of BubR1 kinase in Drosophila is to modulate insulin signaling."	0
"32268080"	"A Targeted Multi-omic Analysis Approach Measures Protein Expression and Low-Abundance Transcripts on the Single-Cell Level.High-throughput single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has become a frequently used tool to assess immune cell heterogeneity. Recently, the combined measurement of RNA and protein expression was developed, commonly known as cellular indexing of transcriptomes and epitopes by sequencing (CITE-seq). Acquisition of protein expression data along with transcriptome data resolves some of the limitations inherent to only assessing transcripts but also nearly doubles the sequencing read depth required per single cell. Furthermore, there is still a paucity of analysis tools to visualize combined transcript-protein datasets. Here, we describe a targeted transcriptomics approach that combines an analysis of over 400 genes with simultaneous measurement of over 40 proteins on 2 × 10<sup>4</sup> cells in a single experiment. This targeted approach requires only about one-tenth of the read depth compared to a whole-transcriptome approach while retaining high sensitivity for low abundance transcripts. To analyze these multi-omic datasets, we adapted one-dimensional soli expression by nonlinear stochastic embedding (One-SENSE) for intuitive visualization of protein-transcript relationships on a single-cell level."	0
"31733992"	"An mTORC1-to-CDK1 Switch Maintains Autophagy Suppression during Mitosis.Since nuclear envelope breakdown occurs during mitosis in metazoan cells, it has been proposed that macroautophagy must be inhibited to maintain genome integrity. However, repression of macroautophagy during mitosis remains controversial and mechanistic detail limited to the suggestion that CDK1 phosphorylates VPS34. Here, we show that initiation of macroautophagy, measured by the translocation of the ULK complex to autophagic puncta, is repressed during mitosis, even when mTORC1 is inhibited. Indeed, mTORC1 is inactive during mitosis, reflecting its failure to localize to lysosomes due to CDK1-dependent RAPTOR phosphorylation. While mTORC1 normally represses autophagy via phosphorylation of ULK1, ATG13, ATG14, and TFEB, we show that the mitotic phosphorylation of these autophagy regulators, including at known repressive sites, is dependent on CDK1 but independent of mTOR. Thus, CDK1 substitutes for inhibited mTORC1 as the master regulator of macroautophagy during mitosis, uncoupling autophagy regulation from nutrient status to ensure repression of macroautophagy during mitosis."	1
"32668244"	"The Zscan4-Tet2 Transcription Nexus Regulates Metabolic Rewiring and Enhances Proteostasis to Promote Reprogramming.Evolutionarily conserved SCAN (named after SRE-ZBP, CTfin51, AW-1, and Number 18 cDNA)-domain-containing zinc finger transcription factors (ZSCAN) have been found in both mouse and human genomes. Zscan4 is transiently expressed during zygotic genome activation (ZGA) in preimplantation embryos and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) reprogramming. However, little is known about the mechanism of Zscan4 underlying these processes of cell fate control. Here, we show that Zscan4f, a representative of ZSCAN proteins, is able to recruit Tet2 through its SCAN domain. The Zscan4f-Tet2 interaction promotes DNA demethylation and regulates the expression of target genes, particularly those encoding glycolytic enzymes and proteasome subunits. Zscan4f regulates metabolic rewiring, enhances proteasome function, and ultimately promotes iPSC generation. These results identify Zscan4f as an important partner of Tet2 in regulating target genes and promoting iPSC generation and suggest a possible and common mechanism shared by SCAN family transcription factors to recruit ten-eleven translocation (TET) DNA dioxygenases to regulate diverse cellular processes, including reprogramming."	1
"32561640"	"The guanine nucleotide exchange factor VAV3 participates in ERBB4-mediated cancer cell migration.ERBB4 is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/ERBB subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases that regulates cellular processes including proliferation, migration, and survival. ERBB4 signaling is involved in embryogenesis and homeostasis of healthy adult tissues, but also in human pathologies such as cancer, neurological disorders, and cardiovascular diseases. Here, an MS-based analysis revealed the Vav guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (VAV3), an activator of Rho family GTPases, as a critical ERBB4-interacting protein in breast cancer cells. We confirmed the ERBB4-VAV3 interaction by targeted MS and coimmunoprecipitation experiments and further defined it by demonstrating that kinase activity and Tyr-1022 and Tyr-1162 of ERBB4, as well as the intact phosphotyrosine-interacting SH2 domain of VAV3, are necessary for this interaction. We found that ERBB4 stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of the VAV3 activation domain, known to be required for guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activity of VAV proteins. In addition to VAV3, the other members of the VAV family, VAV1 and VAV2, also coprecipitated with ERBB4. Analyses of the effects of overexpression of dominant-negative VAV3 constructs or shRNA-mediated down-regulation of VAV3 expression in breast cancer cells indicated that active VAV3 is involved in ERBB4-stimulated cell migration. These results define the VAV GEFs as effectors of ERBB4 activity in a signaling pathway relevant for cancer cell migration."	1
"32017896"	"LARP7-Mediated U6 snRNA Modification Ensures Splicing Fidelity and Spermatogenesis in Mice.U6 snRNA, as an essential component of the catalytic core of the pre-mRNA processing spliceosome, is heavily modified post-transcriptionally, with 2'-O-methylation being most common. The role of these modifications in pre-mRNA splicing as well as their physiological function in mammals have remained largely unclear. Here we report that the La-related protein LARP7 functions as a critical cofactor for 2'-O-methylation of U6 in mouse male germ cells. Mechanistically, LARP7 promotes U6 loading onto box C/D snoRNP, facilitating U6 2'-O-methylation by box C/D snoRNP. Importantly, ablation of LARP7 in the male germline causes defective U6 2'-O-methylation, massive alterations in pre-mRNA splicing, and spermatogenic failure in mice, which can be rescued by ectopic expression of wild-type LARP7 but not an U6-loading-deficient mutant LARP7. Our data uncover a novel role of LARP7 in regulating U6 2'-O-methylation and demonstrate the functional requirement of such modification for splicing fidelity and spermatogenesis in mice."	1
"31926851"	"PD-1 Imposes Qualitative Control of Cellular Transcriptomes in Response to T Cell Activation.Targeted blockade of programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), an immune-checkpoint receptor that inhibits T cell activation, provides clinical benefits in various cancers. However, how PD-1 modulates gene expression in T cells remains enigmatic. Here we investigated how PD-1 affects transcriptome changes induced by T cell receptor (TCR) activation. Intriguingly, we identified a huge variance in PD-1 sensitivity among TCR-inducible genes. When we quantified the half maximal effective concentration (EC<sub>50</sub>) as the relationship between change in gene expression and TCR signal strength, we found that genes associated with survival and proliferation were efficiently expressed upon TCR activation and resistant to PD-1-mediated inhibition. Conversely, genes encoding cytokines and effector molecules were expressed less efficiently and sensitive to PD-1-mediated inhibition. We further demonstrated that transcription factor binding motifs and CpG frequency in the promoter region affect EC<sub>50</sub> and thus the PD-1 sensitivity of genes. Our findings explain how PD-1, dependent on the TCR signal strength, calibrates cellular transcriptomes to shape functional properties of T cell populations."	0
"31400850"	"RAD51AP1 Is an Essential Mediator of Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres.Alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) is a homology-directed repair (HDR) mechanism of telomere elongation that controls proliferation in aggressive cancers. We show that the disruption of RAD51-associated protein 1 (RAD51AP1) in ALT+ cancer cells leads to generational telomere shortening. This is due to RAD51AP1's involvement in RAD51-dependent homologous recombination (HR) and RAD52-POLD3-dependent break induced DNA synthesis. RAD51AP1 KO ALT+ cells exhibit telomere dysfunction and cytosolic telomeric DNA fragments that are sensed by cGAS. Intriguingly, they activate ULK1-ATG7-dependent autophagy as a survival mechanism to mitigate DNA damage and apoptosis. Importantly, RAD51AP1 protein levels are elevated in ALT+ cells due to MMS21 associated SUMOylation. Mutation of a single SUMO-targeted lysine residue perturbs telomere dynamics. These findings indicate that RAD51AP1 is an essential mediator of the ALT mechanism and is co-opted by post-translational mechanisms to maintain telomere length and ensure proliferation of ALT+ cancer cells."	0
"32826336"	"Withdrawal: Mdm2 directs the ubiquitination of β-arrestin-sequestered cAMP phosphodiesterase-4D5."	0
"32541879"	"Neural metabolic imbalance induced by MOF dysfunction triggers pericyte activation and breakdown of vasculature.Mutations in chromatin-modifying complexes and metabolic enzymes commonly underlie complex human developmental syndromes affecting multiple organs. A major challenge is to determine how disease-causing genetic lesions cause deregulation of homeostasis in unique cell types. Here we show that neural-specific depletion of three members of the non-specific lethal (NSL) chromatin complex-Mof, Kansl2 or Kansl3-unexpectedly leads to severe vascular defects and brain haemorrhaging. Deregulation of the epigenetic landscape induced by the loss of the NSL complex in neural cells causes widespread metabolic defects, including an accumulation of free long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs). Free LCFAs induce a Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-NFκB-dependent pro-inflammatory signalling cascade in neighbouring vascular pericytes that is rescued by TLR4 inhibition. Pericytes display functional changes in response to LCFA-induced activation that result in vascular breakdown. Our work establishes that neurovascular function is determined by the neural metabolic environment."	0
"31629659"	"KDM3A Senses Oxygen Availability to Regulate PGC-1α-Mediated Mitochondrial Biogenesis.Hypoxia, which occurs during tumor growth, triggers complex adaptive responses in which peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α) plays a critical role in mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. However, how PGC-1α is regulated in response to oxygen availability remains unclear. We demonstrated that lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) binds to PGC-1α and demethylates monomethylated lysine (K) 224 of PGC-1α under normoxic conditions. Hypoxic stimulation inhibits KDM3A, which has a high K<sub>M</sub> of oxygen for its activity, and enhances PGC-1α K224 monomethylation. This modification decreases PGC-1α's activity required for NRF1- and NRF2-dependent transcriptional regulation of TFAM, TFB1M, and TFB2M, resulting in reduced mitochondrial biogenesis. Expression of PGC-1α K224R mutant significantly increases mitochondrial biogenesis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and tumor cell apoptosis under hypoxia and inhibits brain tumor growth in mice. This study revealed that PGC-1α monomethylation, which is dependent on oxygen availability-regulated KDM3A, plays a critical role in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis."	1
"30922843"	"High-Dimensional Single-Cell Cartography Reveals Novel Skeletal Muscle-Resident Cell Populations.Adult tissue repair and regeneration require stem-progenitor cells that can self-renew and generate differentiated progeny. Skeletal muscle regenerative capacity relies on muscle satellite cells (MuSCs) and their interplay with different cell types within the niche. However, our understanding of skeletal muscle tissue cellular composition is limited. Here, using a combined approach of single-cell RNA sequencing and mass cytometry, we precisely mapped 10 different mononuclear cell types in adult mouse muscle. We also characterized gene signatures and determined key discriminating markers of each cell type. We identified two previously understudied cell populations in the interstitial compartment. One expresses the transcription factor scleraxis and generated tenocytes in vitro. The second expresses markers of smooth muscle and mesenchymal cells (SMMCs) and, while distinct from MuSCs, exhibited myogenic potential and promoted MuSC engraftment following transplantation. The blueprint presented here yields crucial insights into muscle-resident cell-type identities and can be exploited to study muscle diseases."	0
"30472188"	"OTUB2 Promotes Cancer Metastasis via Hippo-Independent Activation of YAP and TAZ.The transcriptional regulators YAP and TAZ play important roles in development, physiology, and tumorigenesis and are negatively controlled by the Hippo pathway. It is yet unknown why the YAP/ TAZ proteins are frequently activated in human malignancies in which the Hippo pathway is still active. Here, by a gain-of-function cancer metastasis screen, we discovered OTUB2 as a cancer stemness and metastasis-promoting factor that deubiquitinates and activates YAP/TAZ. We found OTUB2 to be poly-SUMOylated on lysine 233, and this SUMOylation enables it to bind YAP/TAZ. We also identified a yet-unknown SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) in YAP and TAZ required for their association with SUMOylated OTUB2. Importantly, EGF and oncogenic KRAS induce OTUB2 poly-SUMOylation and thereby activate YAP/TAZ. Our results establish OTUB2 as an essential modulator of YAP/TAZ and also reveal a novel mechanism via which YAP/TAZ activity is induced by oncogenic KRAS."	1
"32416068"	"A High-Throughput Screen for Transcription Activation Domains Reveals Their Sequence Features and Permits Prediction by Deep Learning.Acidic transcription activation domains (ADs) are encoded by a wide range of seemingly unrelated amino acid sequences, making it difficult to recognize features that promote their dynamic behavior, ""fuzzy"" interactions, and target specificity. We screened a large set of random 30-mer peptides for AD function in yeast and trained a deep neural network (ADpred) on the AD-positive and -negative sequences. ADpred identifies known acidic ADs within transcription factors and accurately predicts the consequences of mutations. Our work reveals that strong acidic ADs contain multiple clusters of hydrophobic residues near acidic side chains, explaining why ADs often have a biased amino acid composition. ADs likely use a binding mechanism similar to avidity where a minimum number of weak dynamic interactions are required between activator and target to generate biologically relevant affinity and in vivo function. This mechanism explains the basis for fuzzy binding observed between acidic ADs and targets."	0
"32231305"	"Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency through Neo1 and Unc5b co-regulation of Wnt and MAPK signalling.In mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), chemical blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 (2i) instructs a self-renewing ground state whose endogenous inducers are unknown. Here we show that the axon guidance cue Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency by triggering profound signalling, transcriptomic and epigenetic changes in mESCs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Netrin-1 can substitute for blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 to sustain self-renewal of mESCs in combination with leukaemia inhibitory factor and regulates the formation of the mouse pluripotent blastocyst. Mechanistically, we reveal how Netrin-1 and the balance of its receptors Neo1 and Unc5B co-regulate Wnt and MAPK pathways in both mouse and human ESCs. Netrin-1 induces Fak kinase to inactivate Gsk3α/β and stabilize β-catenin while increasing the phosphatase activity of a Ppp2r2c-containing Pp2a complex to reduce Erk1/2 activity. Collectively, this work identifies Netrin-1 as a regulator of pluripotency and reveals that it mediates different effects in mESCs depending on its receptor dosage, opening perspectives for balancing self-renewal and lineage commitment."	1
"32101750"	"Dissecting the Regulatory Strategies of NF-κB RelA Target Genes in the Inflammatory Response Reveals Differential Transactivation Logics.Nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) RelA is the potent transcriptional activator of inflammatory response genes. We stringently defined a list of direct RelA target genes by integrating physical (chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing [ChIP-seq]) and functional (RNA sequencing [RNA-seq] in knockouts) datasets. We then dissected each gene's regulatory strategy by testing RelA variants in a primary-cell genetic-complementation assay. All endogenous target genes require RelA to make DNA-base-specific contacts, and none are activatable by the DNA binding domain alone. However, endogenous target genes differ widely in how they employ the two transactivation domains. Through model-aided analysis of the dynamic time-course data, we reveal the gene-specific synergy and redundancy of TA1 and TA2. Given that post-translational modifications control TA1 activity and intrinsic affinity for coactivators determines TA2 activity, the differential TA logics suggests context-dependent versus context-independent control of endogenous RelA-target genes. Although some inflammatory initiators appear to require co-stimulatory TA1 activation, inflammatory resolvers are a part of the NF-κB RelA core response."	0
"32492424"	"Critical Roles of Translation Initiation and RNA Uridylation in Endogenous Retroviral Expression and Neural Differentiation in Pluripotent Stem Cells.Previous studies have suggested that the loss of the translation initiation factor eIF4G1 homolog NAT1 induces excessive self-renewability of naive pluripotent stem cells (PSCs); yet the role of NAT1 in the self-renewal and differentiation of primed PSCs is still unclear. Here, we generate a conditional knockout of NAT1 in primed PSCs and use the cells for the functional analyses of NAT1. Our results show that NAT1 is required for the self-renewal and neural differentiation of primed PSCs. In contrast, NAT1 deficiency in naive pluripotency attenuates the differentiation to all cell types. We also find that NAT1 is involved in efficient protein expression of an RNA uridyltransferase, TUT7. TUT7 is involved in the neural differentiation of primed PSCs via the regulation of human endogenous retrovirus accumulation. These data demonstrate the essential roles of NAT1 and TUT7 in the precise transition of stem cell fate."	1
"32424275"	"Enhancer reprogramming driven by high-order assemblies of transcription factors promotes phenotypic plasticity and breast cancer endocrine resistance.Acquired therapy resistance is a major problem for anticancer treatment, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Using an established breast cancer cellular model, we show that endocrine resistance is associated with enhanced phenotypic plasticity, indicated by a general downregulation of luminal/epithelial differentiation markers and upregulation of basal/mesenchymal invasive markers. Consistently, similar gene expression changes are found in clinical breast tumours and patient-derived xenograft samples that are resistant to endocrine therapies. Mechanistically, the differential interactions between oestrogen receptor α and other oncogenic transcription factors, exemplified by GATA3 and AP1, drive global enhancer gain/loss reprogramming, profoundly altering breast cancer transcriptional programs. Our functional studies in multiple culture and xenograft models reveal a coordinated role of GATA3 and AP1 in re-organizing enhancer landscapes and regulating cancer phenotypes. Collectively, our study suggests that differential high-order assemblies of transcription factors on enhancers trigger genome-wide enhancer reprogramming, resulting in transcriptional transitions that promote tumour phenotypic plasticity and therapy resistance."	0
"32937129"	"A Membrane-Associated DHH-DHHA1 Nuclease Degrades Type III CRISPR Second Messenger.Type III CRISPR-Cas systems initiate an intracellular signaling pathway to confer immunity. The signaling pathway includes synthesis of cyclic oligo-adenylate (cOA) and activation of the RNase activity of type III accessory ribonuclease Csm6/Csx1 by cOA. After the immune response, cOA should be cleared on time to avoid constant cellular RNA degradation. In this study, we find a metal-dependent cOA degradation activity in Sulfolobus islandicus. The activity is associated with the cell membrane and able to accelerate cOA clearance at a high cOA level. Further, we show that a metal-dependent and membrane-associated DHH-DHHA1 family nuclease (MAD) rapidly cleaves cOA and deactivates Csx1 ribonuclease. The cOA degradation efficiency of MAD is much higher than the cellular ring nuclease. However, the subcellular organization may prevent it from degrading nascent cOA. Together, the data suggest that MAD acts as the second cOA degrader after the ring nuclease to remove diffused redundant cOA."	0
"32783937"	"Protein O-GlcNAc Modification Links Dietary and Gut Microbial Cues to the Differentiation of Enteroendocrine L Cells.Intestinal L cells regulate a wide range of metabolic processes, and L-cell dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of obesity and diabetes. However, it is incompletely understood how luminal signals are integrated to control the development of L cells. Here we show that food availability and gut microbiota-produced short-chain fatty acids control the posttranslational modification on intracellular proteins by O-linked β-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) in intestinal epithelial cells. Via FOXO1 O-GlcNAcylation, O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) suppresses expression of the lineage-specifying transcription factor Neurogenin 3 and, thus, L cell differentiation from enteroendocrine progenitors. Intestinal epithelial ablation of OGT in mice not only causes L cell hyperplasia and increased secretion of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) but also disrupts gut microbial compositions, which notably contributes to decreased weight gain and improved glycemic control. Our results identify intestinal epithelial O-GlcNAc signaling as a brake on L cell development and function in response to nutritional and microbial cues."	0
"32616651"	"The autophagy protein Ambra1 regulates gene expression by supporting novel transcriptional complexes.Ambra1 is considered an autophagy and trafficking protein with roles in neurogenesis and cancer cell invasion. Here, we report that Ambra1 also localizes to the nucleus of cancer cells, where it has a novel nuclear scaffolding function that controls gene expression. Using biochemical fractionation and proteomics, we found that Ambra1 binds to multiple classes of proteins in the nucleus, including nuclear pore proteins, adaptor proteins such as FAK and Akap8, chromatin-modifying proteins, and transcriptional regulators like Brg1 and Atf2. We identified biologically important genes, such as <i>Angpt1</i>, <i>Tgfb2</i>, <i>Tgfb3</i>, <i>Itga8</i>, and <i>Itgb7</i>, whose transcription is regulated by Ambra1-scaffolded complexes, likely by altering histone modifications and Atf2 activity. Therefore, in addition to its recognized roles in autophagy and trafficking, Ambra1 scaffolds protein complexes at chromatin, regulating transcriptional signaling in the nucleus. This novel function for Ambra1, and the specific genes impacted, may help to explain the wider role of Ambra1 in cancer cell biology."	1
"32294429"	"Progesterone Receptor Serves the Ovary as a Trigger of Ovulation and a Terminator of Inflammation.Ovulation is triggered by the gonadotropin surge that induces the expression of two key genes, progesterone receptor (Pgr) and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2), in the granulosa cells of preovulatory follicles. Their gene products PGR and PTGS2 activate two separate pathways that are both essential for successful ovulation. Here, we show that the PGR plays an additional essential role: it attenuates ovulatory inflammation by diminishing the gonadotropin surge-induced Ptgs2 expression. PGR indirectly terminates Ptgs2 expression and PGE2 synthesis in granulosa cells by inhibiting the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), a transcription factor required for Ptgs2 expression. When the expression of PGR is ablated in granulosa cells, the ovary undergoes a hyperinflammatory condition manifested by excessive PGE2 synthesis, immune cell infiltration, oxidative damage, and neoplastic transformation of ovarian cells. The PGR-driven termination of PTGS2 expression may protect the ovary from ovulatory inflammation."	1
"32497495"	"POLE Mutation Spectra Are Shaped by the Mutant Allele Identity, Its Abundance, and Mismatch Repair Status.Human tumors with exonuclease domain mutations in the gene encoding DNA polymerase ε (POLE) have incredibly high mutation burdens. These errors arise in four unique mutation signatures occurring in different relative amounts, the etiologies of which remain poorly understood. We used CRISPR-Cas9 to engineer human cell lines expressing POLE tumor variants, with and without mismatch repair (MMR). Whole-exome sequencing of these cells after defined numbers of population doublings permitted analysis of nascent mutation accumulation. Unlike an exonuclease active site mutant that we previously characterized, POLE cancer mutants readily drive signature mutagenesis in the presence of functional MMR. Comparison of cell line and human patient data suggests that the relative abundance of mutation signatures partitions POLE tumors into distinct subgroups dependent on the nature of the POLE allele, its expression level, and MMR status. These results suggest that different POLE mutants have previously unappreciated differences in replication fidelity and mutagenesis."	0
"32521264"	"PRMT1-p53 Pathway Controls Epicardial EMT and Invasion.Epicardial cells are cardiac progenitors that give rise to the majority of cardiac fibroblasts, coronary smooth muscle cells, and pericytes during development. An integral phase of epicardial fate transition is epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) that confers motility. We uncover an essential role for the protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) in epicardial invasion and differentiation. Using scRNA-seq, we show that epicardial-specific deletion of Prmt1 reduced matrix and ribosomal gene expression in epicardial-derived cell lineages. PRMT1 regulates splicing of Mdm4, which is a key controller of p53 stability. Loss of PRMT1 leads to accumulation of p53 that enhances Slug degradation and blocks EMT. During heart development, the PRMT1-p53 pathway is required for epicardial invasion and formation of epicardial-derived lineages: cardiac fibroblasts, coronary smooth muscle cells, and pericytes. Consequently, this pathway modulates ventricular morphogenesis and coronary vessel formation. Altogether, our study reveals molecular mechanisms involving the PRMT1-p53 pathway and establish its roles in heart development."	1
"32668254"	"Antagonistic Activities of Vegfr3/Flt4 and Notch1b Fine-tune Mechanosensitive Signaling during Zebrafish Cardiac Valvulogenesis.The formation of cardiac valves depends on mechanical forces exerted by blood flow. Endocardial cells lining the interior of the heart are sensitive to these stimuli and respond by rearranging into luminal cells subjected to shear stress and abluminal cells not exposed to it. The mechanisms by which endocardial cells sense these dynamic biomechanical stimuli and how they evoke different cellular responses are largely unknown. Here, we show that blood flow activates two parallel mechanosensitive pathways, one mediated by Notch and the other by Klf2a. Both pathways negatively regulate the angiogenesis receptor Vegfr3/Flt4, which becomes restricted to abluminal endocardial cells. Its loss disrupts valve morphogenesis and results in the occurrence of Notch signaling within abluminal endocardial cells. Our work explains how antagonistic activities by Vegfr3/Flt4 on the abluminal side and by Notch on the luminal side shape cardiac valve leaflets by triggering unique differences in the fates of endocardial cells."	1
"31733993"	"Lineage-Restricted Regulation of SCD and Fatty Acid Saturation by MITF Controls Melanoma Phenotypic Plasticity.Phenotypic and metabolic heterogeneity within tumors is a major barrier to effective cancer therapy. How metabolism is implicated in specific phenotypes and whether lineage-restricted mechanisms control key metabolic vulnerabilities remain poorly understood. In melanoma, downregulation of the lineage addiction oncogene microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) is a hallmark of the proliferative-to-invasive phenotype switch, although how MITF promotes proliferation and suppresses invasion is poorly defined. Here, we show that MITF is a lineage-restricted activator of the key lipogenic enzyme stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) and that SCD is required for MITF<sup>High</sup> melanoma cell proliferation. By contrast MITF<sup>Low</sup> cells are insensitive to SCD inhibition. Significantly, the MITF-SCD axis suppresses metastasis, inflammatory signaling, and an ATF4-mediated feedback loop that maintains de-differentiation. Our results reveal that MITF is a lineage-specific regulator of metabolic reprogramming, whereby fatty acid composition is a driver of melanoma phenotype switching, and highlight that cell phenotype dictates the response to drugs targeting lipid metabolism."	1
"32649864"	"Potential Causes and Consequences of Gastrointestinal Disorders during a SARS-CoV-2 Infection.Coronaviruses cause several human diseases, including severe acute respiratory syndrome. The global coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has become a huge threat to humans. Intensive research on the pathogenic mechanisms used by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is urgently needed-notably to identify potential drug targets. Clinical studies of patients with COVID-19 have shown that gastrointestinal disorders appear to precede or follow the respiratory symptoms. Here, we review gastrointestinal disorders in patients with COVID-19, suggest hypothetical mechanisms leading to gut symptoms, and discuss the potential consequences of gastrointestinal disorders on the outcome of the disease. Lastly, we discuss the role of the gut microbiota during respiratory viral infections and suggest that targeting gut dysbiosis may help to control the pathogenesis of COVID-19."	0
"31995763"	"Quantitative and Dynamic Catalogs of Proteins Released during Apoptotic and Necroptotic Cell Death.The inflammatory functions of the cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF) rely on its ability to induce cytokine production and to induce cell death. Caspase-dependent and caspase-independent pathways-apoptosis and necroptosis, respectively-regulate immunogenicity by the release of distinct sets of cellular proteins. To obtain an unbiased, systems-level understanding of this important process, we here applied mass spectrometry-based proteomics to dissect protein release during apoptosis and necroptosis. We report hundreds of proteins released from human myeloid cells in time course experiments. Both cell death types induce receptor shedding, but only apoptotic cells released nucleosome components. Conversely, necroptotic cells release lysosomal components by activating lysosomal exocytosis at early stages of necroptosis-induced membrane permeabilization and show reduced release of conventionally secreted cytokines."	0
"32320656"	"CytoMAP: A Spatial Analysis Toolbox Reveals Features of Myeloid Cell Organization in Lymphoid Tissues.Recently developed approaches for highly multiplexed imaging have revealed complex patterns of cellular positioning and cell-cell interactions with important roles in both cellular- and tissue-level physiology. However, tools to quantitatively study cellular patterning and tissue architecture are currently lacking. Here, we develop a spatial analysis toolbox, the histo-cytometric multidimensional analysis pipeline (CytoMAP), which incorporates data clustering, positional correlation, dimensionality reduction, and 2D/3D region reconstruction to identify localized cellular networks and reveal features of tissue organization. We apply CytoMAP to study the microanatomy of innate immune subsets in murine lymph nodes (LNs) and reveal mutually exclusive segregation of migratory dendritic cells (DCs), regionalized compartmentalization of SIRPα<sup>-</sup> dermal DCs, and preferential association of resident DCs with select LN vasculature. The findings provide insights into the organization of myeloid cells in LNs and demonstrate that CytoMAP is a comprehensive analytics toolbox for revealing features of tissue organization in imaging datasets."	0
"32139423"	"The adrenergic-induced ERK3 pathway drives lipolysis and suppresses energy dissipation.Obesity-induced diabetes affects >400 million people worldwide. Uncontrolled lipolysis (free fatty acid release from adipocytes) can contribute to diabetes and obesity. To identify future therapeutic avenues targeting this pathway, we performed a high-throughput screen and identified the extracellular-regulated kinase 3 (ERK3) as a hit. We demonstrated that β-adrenergic stimulation stabilizes ERK3, leading to the formation of a complex with the cofactor MAP kinase-activated protein kinase 5 (MK5), thereby driving lipolysis. Mechanistically, we identified a downstream target of the ERK3/MK5 pathway, the transcription factor FOXO1, which promotes the expression of the major lipolytic enzyme ATGL. Finally, we provide evidence that targeted deletion of ERK3 in mouse adipocytes inhibits lipolysis, but elevates energy dissipation, promoting lean phenotype and ameliorating diabetes. Thus, ERK3/MK5 represents a previously unrecognized signaling axis in adipose tissue and an attractive target for future therapies aiming to combat obesity-induced diabetes."	1
"32610120"	"Widespread Inhibition, Antagonism, and Synergy in Mouse Olfactory Sensory Neurons In Vivo.Sensory information is selectively or non-selectively enhanced and inhibited in the brain, but it remains unclear whether and how this occurs at the most peripheral level. Using in vivo calcium imaging of mouse olfactory bulb and olfactory epithelium in wild-type and mutant animals, we show that odors produce not only excitatory but also inhibitory responses in olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs). Heterologous assays indicate that odorants can act as agonists to some but inverse agonists to other odorant receptors. We also demonstrate that responses to odor mixtures are extensively suppressed or enhanced in OSNs. When high concentrations of odors are mixed, widespread antagonism suppresses the overall response amplitudes and density. In contrast, a mixture of low concentrations of odors often produces synergistic effects and boosts the faint odor inputs. Thus, odor responses are extensively tuned by inhibition, antagonism, and synergy at the most peripheral level, contributing to robust sensory representations."	0
"32822587"	"Functional Interplay between Histone H2B ADP-Ribosylation and Phosphorylation Controls Adipogenesis.Although ADP-ribosylation of histones by PARP-1 has been linked to genotoxic stress responses, its role in physiological processes and gene expression has remained elusive. We found that NAD<sup>+</sup>-dependent ADP-ribosylation of histone H2B-Glu35 by small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA)-activated PARP-1 inhibits AMP kinase-mediated phosphorylation of adjacent H2B-Ser36, which is required for the proadipogenic gene expression program. The activity of PARP-1 on H2B requires NMNAT-1, a nuclear NAD<sup>+</sup> synthase, which directs PARP-1 catalytic activity to Glu and Asp residues. ADP-ribosylation of Glu35 and the subsequent reduction of H2B-Ser36 phosphorylation inhibits the differentiation of adipocyte precursors in cultured cells. Parp1 knockout in preadipocytes in a mouse lineage-tracing genetic model increases adipogenesis, leading to obesity. Collectively, our results demonstrate a functional interplay between H2B-Glu35 ADP-ribosylation and H2B-Ser36 phosphorylation that controls adipogenesis."	1
"32348780"	"A Family of Argonaute-Interacting Proteins Gates Nuclear RNAi.Nuclear RNA interference (RNAi) pathways work together with histone modifications to regulate gene expression and enact an adaptive response to transposable RNA elements. In the germline, nuclear RNAi can lead to trans-generational epigenetic inheritance (TEI) of gene silencing. We identified and characterized a family of nuclear Argonaute-interacting proteins (ENRIs) that control the strength and target specificity of nuclear RNAi in C. elegans, ensuring faithful inheritance of epigenetic memories. ENRI-1/2 prevent misloading of the nuclear Argonaute NRDE-3 with small RNAs that normally effect maternal piRNAs, which prevents precocious nuclear translocation of NRDE-3 in the early embryo. Additionally, they are negative regulators of nuclear RNAi triggered from exogenous sources. Loss of ENRI-3, an unstable protein expressed mostly in the male germline, misdirects the RNAi response to transposable elements and impairs TEI. The ENRIs determine the potency and specificity of nuclear RNAi responses by gating small RNAs into specific nuclear Argonautes."	1
"30898438"	"MDC1 Interacts with TOPBP1 to Maintain Chromosomal Stability during Mitosis.In mitosis, cells inactivate DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathways to preserve genome stability. However, some early signaling events still occur, such as recruitment of the scaffold protein MDC1 to phosphorylated histone H2AX at DSBs. Yet, it remains unclear whether these events are important for maintaining genome stability during mitosis. Here, we identify a highly conserved protein-interaction surface in MDC1 that is phosphorylated by CK2 and recognized by the DNA-damage response mediator protein TOPBP1. Disruption of MDC1-TOPBP1 binding causes a specific loss of TOPBP1 recruitment to DSBs in mitotic but not interphase cells, accompanied by mitotic radiosensitivity, increased micronuclei, and chromosomal instability. Mechanistically, we find that TOPBP1 forms filamentous structures capable of bridging MDC1 foci in mitosis, indicating that MDC1-TOPBP1 complexes tether DSBs until repair is reactivated in the following G1 phase. Thus, we reveal an important, hitherto-unnoticed cooperation between MDC1 and TOPBP1 in maintaining genome stability during cell division."	1
"31914388"	"The Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Delta Regulates Developmental Neurogenesis.PTPRD is a receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase that is genetically associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we asked whether Ptprd mutations cause aberrant neural development by perturbing neurogenesis in the murine cortex. We show that loss of Ptprd causes increases in neurogenic transit-amplifying intermediate progenitor cells and cortical neurons and perturbations in neuronal localization. These effects are intrinsic to neural precursor cells since acute Ptprd knockdown causes similar perturbations. PTPRD mediates these effects by dephosphorylating receptor tyrosine kinases, including TrkB and PDGFRβ, and loss of Ptprd causes the hyperactivation of TrkB and PDGFRβ and their downstream MEK-ERK signaling pathway in neural precursor cells. Moreover, inhibition of aberrant TrkB or MEK activation rescues the increased neurogenesis caused by knockdown or homozygous loss of Ptprd. These results suggest that PTPRD regulates receptor tyrosine kinases to ensure appropriate numbers of intermediate progenitor cells and neurons, suggesting a mechanism for its genetic association with neurodevelopmental disorders."	1
"32375051"	"Srebf1 Controls Midbrain Dopaminergic Neurogenesis.Liver X receptors (LXRs) and their ligands are potent regulators of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurogenesis and differentiation. However, the molecular mechanisms by which LXRs control these functions remain to be elucidated. Here, we perform a combined transcriptome and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis of midbrain cells after LXR activation, followed by bioinformatic analysis to elucidate the transcriptional networks controlling mDA neurogenesis. Our results identify the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1) as part of a cluster of proneural transcription factors in radial glia and as a regulator of transcription factors controlling mDA neurogenesis, such as Foxa2. Moreover, loss- and gain-of-function experiments in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that Srebf1 is both required and sufficient for mDA neurogenesis. Our data, thus, identify Srebf1 as a central player in mDA neurogenesis."	1
"31495563"	"Transcriptional Responses to IFN-γ Require Mediator Kinase-Dependent Pause Release and Mechanistically Distinct CDK8 and CDK19 Functions.Transcriptional responses to external stimuli remain poorly understood. Using global nuclear run-on followed by sequencing (GRO-seq) and precision nuclear run-on sequencing (PRO-seq), we show that CDK8 kinase activity promotes RNA polymerase II pause release in response to interferon-γ (IFN-γ), a universal cytokine involved in immunity and tumor surveillance. The Mediator kinase module contains CDK8 or CDK19, which are presumed to be functionally redundant. We implemented cortistatin A, chemical genetics, transcriptomics, and other methods to decouple their function while assessing enzymatic versus structural roles. Unexpectedly, CDK8 and CDK19 regulated different gene sets via distinct mechanisms. CDK8-dependent regulation required its kinase activity, whereas CDK19 governed IFN-γ responses through its scaffolding function (i.e., it was kinase independent). Accordingly, CDK8, not CDK19, phosphorylates the STAT1 transcription factor (TF) during IFN-γ stimulation, and CDK8 kinase inhibition blocked activation of JAK-STAT pathway TFs. Cytokines such as IFN-γ rapidly mobilize TFs to ""reprogram"" cellular transcription; our results implicate CDK8 and CDK19 as essential for this transcriptional reprogramming."	1
"32296165"	"Author Correction: piRNA-independent function of PIWIL1 as a co-activator for anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome to drive pancreatic cancer metastasis.An amendment to this paper has been published and can be accessed via a link at the top of the paper."	0
"30595434"	"Noncanonical Modulation of the eIF2 Pathway Controls an Increase in Local Translation during Neural Wiring.Local translation is rapidly regulated by extrinsic signals during neural wiring, but its control mechanisms remain elusive. Here we show that the extracellular cue Sema3A induces an initial burst in local translation that precisely controls phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2α via the unfolded protein response (UPR) kinase PERK. Strikingly, in contrast to canonical UPR signaling, Sema3A-induced eIF2α phosphorylation bypasses global translational repression and underlies an increase in local translation through differential activity of eIF2B mediated by protein phosphatase 1. Ultrasensitive proteomics analysis of axons reveals 75 proteins translationally controlled via the Sema3A-p-eIF2α pathway. These include proteostasis- and actin cytoskeleton-related proteins but not canonical stress markers. Finally, we show that PERK signaling is needed for directional axon migration and visual pathway development in vivo. Thus, our findings reveal a noncanonical eIF2 signaling pathway that controls selective changes in axon translation and is required for neural wiring."	1
"32130890"	"Regulated Proteolysis of MutSγ Controls Meiotic Crossing Over.Crossover recombination is essential for accurate chromosome segregation during meiosis. The MutSγ complex, Msh4-Msh5, facilitates crossing over by binding and stabilizing nascent recombination intermediates. We show that these activities are governed by regulated proteolysis. MutSγ is initially inactive for crossing over due to an N-terminal degron on Msh4 that renders it unstable by directly targeting proteasomal degradation. Activation of MutSγ requires the Dbf4-dependent kinase Cdc7 (DDK), which directly phosphorylates and thereby neutralizes the Msh4 degron. Genetic requirements for Msh4 phosphorylation indicate that DDK targets MutSγ only after it has bound to nascent joint molecules (JMs) in the context of synapsing chromosomes. Overexpression studies confirm that the steady-state level of Msh4, not phosphorylation per se, is the critical determinant for crossing over. At the DNA level, Msh4 phosphorylation enables the formation and crossover-biased resolution of double-Holliday Junction intermediates. Our study establishes regulated protein degradation as a fundamental mechanism underlying meiotic crossing over."	1
"31402096"	"Bicoid-Dependent Activation of the Target Gene hunchback Requires a Two-Motif Sequence Code in a Specific Basal Promoter.In complex genetic loci, individual enhancers interact most often with specific basal promoters. Here we investigate the activation of the Bicoid target gene hunchback (hb), which contains two basal promoters (P1 and P2). Early in embryogenesis, P1 is silent, while P2 is strongly activated. In vivo deletion of P2 does not cause activation of P1, suggesting that P2 contains intrinsic sequence motifs required for activation. We show that a two-motif code (a Zelda binding site plus TATA) is required and sufficient for P2 activation. Zelda sites are present in the promoters of many embryonically expressed genes, but the combination of Zelda plus TATA does not seem to be a general code for early activation or Bicoid-specific activation per se. Because Zelda sites are also found in Bicoid-dependent enhancers, we propose that simultaneous binding to both enhancers and promoters independently synchronizes chromatin accessibility and facilitates correct enhancer-promoter interactions."	0
"32587092"	"High-speed atomic force microscopy directly visualizes conformational dynamics of the HIV Vif protein in complex with three host proteins.Vif (viral infectivity factor) is a protein that is essential for the replication of the HIV-1 virus. The key function of Vif is to disrupt the antiviral activity of host APOBEC3 (apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme catalytic subunit 3) proteins, which mutate viral nucleic acids. Inside the cell, Vif binds to the host cell proteins Elongin-C, Elongin-B, and core-binding factor subunit β, forming a four-protein complex called VCBC. The structure of VCBC-Cullin5 has recently been solved by X-ray crystallography, and, using molecular dynamics simulations, the dynamics of VCBC have been characterized. Here, we applied time-lapse high-speed atomic force microscopy to visualize the conformational changes of the VCBC complex. We determined the three most favorable conformations of this complex, which we identified as the triangle, dumbbell, and globular structures. Moreover, we characterized the dynamics of each of these structures. Our data revealed the very dynamic behavior of all of them, with the triangle and dumbbell structures being the most dynamic. These findings provide insight into the structure and dynamics of the VCBC complex and may support efforts to improve HIV treatment, because Vif is essential for virus survival in the cell."	0
"30853401"	"Spatiotemporal Control of ULK1 Activation by NDP52 and TBK1 during Selective Autophagy.Selective autophagy recycles damaged organelles and clears intracellular pathogens to prevent their aberrant accumulation. How ULK1 kinase is targeted and activated during selective autophagic events remains to be elucidated. In this study, we used chemically inducible dimerization (CID) assays in tandem with CRISPR KO lines to systematically analyze the molecular basis of selective autophagosome biogenesis. We demonstrate that ectopic placement of NDP52 on mitochondria or peroxisomes is sufficient to initiate selective autophagy by focally localizing and activating the ULK1 complex. The capability of NDP52 to induce mitophagy is dependent on its interaction with the FIP200/ULK1 complex, which is facilitated by TBK1. Ectopically tethering ULK1 to cargo bypasses the requirement for autophagy receptors and TBK1. Focal activation of ULK1 occurs independently of AMPK and mTOR. Our findings provide a parsimonious model of selective autophagy, which highlights the coordination of ULK1 complex localization by autophagy receptors and TBK1 as principal drivers of targeted autophagosome biogenesis."	1
"32647009"	"Direct relationship between increased expression and mistrafficking of the Charcot-Marie-Tooth-associated protein PMP22.Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is a neuropathy of the peripheral nervous system that afflicts ∼1:2500 people. The most common form of this disease (CMT1A, 1:4000) is associated with duplication of chromosome fragment 17p11.2-12, which results in a third WT <i>PMP22</i> allele. In rodent models overexpressing the PMP22 (peripheral myelin protein 22) protein and in dermal fibroblasts from patients with CMT1A, PMP22 aggregates have been observed. This suggests that overexpression of PMP22 under CMT1A conditions overwhelms the endoplasmic reticulum quality control system, leading to formation of cytotoxic aggregates. In this work, we used a single-cell flow-cytometry trafficking assay to quantitatively examine the relationship between PMP22 expression and trafficking efficiency in individual cells. We observed that as expression of WT or disease variants of PMP22 is increased, the amount of intracellular PMP22 increases to a greater extent than the amount of surface-trafficked protein. This was true for both transiently transfected cells and PMP22 stable expressing cells. Our results support the notion that overexpression of PMP22 in CMT1A leads to a disproportionate increase in misfolding and mistrafficking of PMP22, which is likely a contributor to disease pathology and progression."	0
"30879903"	"MDM2 Integrates Cellular Respiration and Apoptotic Signaling through NDUFS1 and the Mitochondrial Network.Signaling diversity and subsequent complexity in higher eukaryotes is partially explained by one gene encoding a polypeptide with multiple biochemical functions in different cellular contexts. For example, mouse double minute 2 (MDM2) is functionally characterized as both an oncogene and a tumor suppressor, yet this dual classification confounds the cell biology and clinical literatures. Identified via complementary biochemical, organellar, and cellular approaches, we report that MDM2 negatively regulates NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase 75 kDa Fe-S protein 1 (NDUFS1), leading to decreased mitochondrial respiration, marked oxidative stress, and commitment to the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis. MDM2 directly binds and sequesters NDUFS1, preventing its mitochondrial localization and ultimately causing complex I and supercomplex destabilization and inefficiency of oxidative phosphorylation. The MDM2 amino-terminal region is sufficient to bind NDUFS1, alter supercomplex assembly, and induce apoptosis. Finally, this pathway is independent of p53, and several mitochondrial phenotypes are observed in Drosophila and murine models expressing transgenic Mdm2."	1
"32521255"	"Mature Retina Compensates Functionally for Partial Loss of Rod Photoreceptors.Loss of primary neuronal inputs inevitably strikes every neural circuit. The deafferented circuit could propagate, amplify, or mitigate input loss, thus affecting the circuit's output. How the deafferented circuit contributes to the effect on the output is poorly understood because of lack of control over loss of and access to circuit elements. Here, we control the timing and degree of rod photoreceptor ablation in mature mouse retina and uncover compensation. Following loss of half of the rods, rod bipolar cells mitigate the loss by preserving voltage output. Such mitigation allows partial recovery of ganglion cell responses. We conclude that rod death is compensated for in the circuit because ganglion cell responses to stimulation of half of the rods in an unperturbed circuit are weaker than responses after death of half of the rods. The dominant mechanism of such compensation includes homeostatic regulation of inhibition to balance the loss of excitation."	0
"32381510"	"Age-related changes in the physical properties, cross-linking, and glycation of collagen from mouse tail tendon.Collagen is a structural protein whose internal cross-linking critically determines the properties and functions of connective tissue. Knowing how the cross-linking of collagen changes with age is key to understanding why the mechanical properties of tissues change over a lifetime. The current scientific consensus is that collagen cross-linking increases with age and that this increase leads to tendon stiffening. Here, we show that this view should be reconsidered. Using MS-based analyses, we demonstrated that during aging of healthy C57BL/6 mice, the overall levels of collagen cross-linking in tail tendon decreased with age. However, the levels of lysine glycation in collagen, which is not considered a cross-link, increased dramatically with age. We found that in 16-week-old diabetic db/db mice, glycation reaches levels similar to those observed in 98-week-old C57BL/6 mice, while the other cross-links typical of tendon collagen either decreased or remained the same as those observed in 20-week-old WT mice. These results, combined with findings from mechanical testing of tendons from these mice, indicate that overall collagen cross-linking in mouse tendon decreases with age. Our findings also reveal that lysine glycation appears to be an important factor that contributes to tendon stiffening with age and in diabetes."	0
"32610143"	"Alzheimer's Patient Microglia Exhibit Enhanced Aging and Unique Transcriptional Activation.Damage-associated microglia (DAM) profiles observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related mouse models reflect an activation state that could modulate AD risk or progression. To learn whether human AD microglia (HAM) display a similar profile, we develop a method for purifying cell types from frozen cerebrocortical tissues for RNA-seq analysis, allowing better transcriptome coverage than typical single-nucleus RNA-seq approaches. The HAM profile we observe bears little resemblance to the DAM profile. Instead, HAM display an enhanced human aging profile, in addition to other disease-related changes such as APOE upregulation. Analyses of whole-tissue RNA-seq and single-cell/nucleus RNA-seq datasets corroborate our findings and suggest that the lack of DAM response in human microglia occurs specifically in AD tissues, not other neurodegenerative settings. These results, which can be browsed at http://research-pub.gene.com/BrainMyeloidLandscape, provide a genome-wide picture of microglial activation in human AD and highlight considerable differences between mouse models and human disease."	0
"32579928"	"Fibroblast-Derived STC-1 Modulates Tumor-Associated Macrophages and Lung Adenocarcinoma Development.The tumor microenvironment (TME) consists of different cell types, including tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and tumor-associated fibroblasts (TAFs). How these cells interact and contribute to lung carcinogenesis remains elusive. Using <sup>G12D</sup>KRAS- and <sup>V600E</sup>BRAF-driven mouse lung models, we identify the pleiotropic glycoprotein stanniocalcin-1 (STC1) as a regulator of TAM-TAF interactions. STC1 is secreted by TAFs and suppresses TAM differentiation, at least in part, by sequestering the binding of GRP94, an autocrine macrophage-differentiation-inducing factor, to its cognate scavenger receptors. The accumulation of mature TAMs in the Stc1-deficient lung leads to enhanced secretion of TGF-β1 and, thus, TAF accumulation in the TME. Consistent with the mouse data, in human lung adenocarcinoma, STC1 expression is restricted to myofibroblasts, and a significant increase of naive macrophages is detected in STC1-high compared with STC1-low cases. This work increases our understanding of lung adenocarcinoma development and suggests new approaches for therapeutic targeting of the TME."	1
"32268084"	"Genome-wide Screens Implicate Loss of Cullin Ring Ligase 3 in Persistent Proliferation and Genome Instability in TP53-Deficient Cells.TP53 deficiency is the most common alteration in cancer; however, this alone is typically insufficient to drive tumorigenesis. To identify genes promoting tumorigenesis in combination with TP53 deficiency, we perform genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 knockout screens coupled with proliferation and transformation assays in isogenic cell lines. Loss of several known tumor suppressors enhances cellular proliferation and transformation. Loss of neddylation pathway genes promotes uncontrolled proliferation exclusively in TP53-deficient cells. Combined loss of CUL3 and TP53 activates an oncogenic transcriptional program governed by the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), AP-1, and transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) pathways. This program maintains persistent cellular proliferation, induces partial epithelial to mesenchymal transition, and increases DNA damage, genomic instability, and chromosomal rearrangements. Our findings reveal CUL3 loss as a key event stimulating persistent proliferation in TP53-deficient cells. These findings may be clinically relevant, since TP53-CUL3-deficient cells are highly sensitive to ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) inhibition, exposing a vulnerability that could be exploited for cancer treatment."	0
"32726635"	"Bab2 Functions as an Ecdysone-Responsive Transcriptional Repressor during Drosophila Development.Drosophila development is governed by distinct ecdysone steroid pulses that initiate spatially and temporally defined gene expression programs. The translation of these signals into tissue-specific responses is crucial for metamorphosis, but the mechanisms that confer specificity to systemic ecdysone pulses are far from understood. Here, we identify Bric-à-brac 2 (Bab2) as an ecdysone-responsive transcriptional repressor that controls temporal gene expression during larval to pupal transition. Bab2 is necessary to terminate Salivary gland secretion (Sgs) gene expression, while premature Bab2 expression blocks Sgs genes and causes precocious salivary gland histolysis. The timely expression of bab2 is controlled by the ecdysone-responsive transcription factor Broad, and manipulation of EcR/USP/Broad signaling induces inappropriate Bab2 expression and termination of Sgs gene expression. Bab2 directly binds to Sgs loci in vitro and represses all Sgs genes in vivo. Our work characterizes Bab2 as a temporal regulator of somatic gene expression in response to systemic ecdysone signaling."	1
"32268103"	"Shank2 Binds to aPKC and Controls Tight Junction Formation with Rap1 Signaling during Establishment of Epithelial Cell Polarity.Epithelial cells establish apicobasal polarity by forming tight junctions (TJs) at the apical-lateral boundary, which play fundamental roles in physiological functions. An evolutionarily conserved atypical protein kinase C (aPKC)-partitioning defective (PAR) complex functions as a platform for TJ assembly during cell polarity establishment. However, how this complex converts the spatial cues into a subsequent active unit is unclear. Here, we identify an epithelial isoform of Shank2 as a mediator of the aPKC-PAR complex. Shank2 binds to and colocalizes with aPKC at apical junctional regions of polarized epithelial cells. Shank2 knockdown results in defects in TJ formation. Mechanistically, we find that the N-terminal SPN domain is required for the junctional localization of Shank2 and binds to the active form of Rap1 small GTPase, which is involved in TJ formation. Our findings suggest that a close physical and functional relationship between aPKC and Shank2-active Rap1 signaling serves as the platform for TJ assembly to regulate epithelial cell polarity."	1
"31732456"	"Epigenetic Regulator CoREST Controls Social Behavior in Ants.Ants acquire distinct morphological and behavioral phenotypes arising from a common genome, underscoring the importance of epigenetic regulation. In Camponotus floridanus, ""Major"" workers defend the colony, but can be epigenetically reprogrammed to forage for food analogously to ""Minor"" workers. Here, we utilize reprogramming to investigate natural behavioral specification. Reprogramming of Majors upregulates Minor-biased genes and downregulates Major-biased genes, engaging molecular pathways fundamental to foraging behavior. We discover the neuronal corepressor for element-1-silencing transcription factor (CoREST) is upregulated upon reprogramming and required for the epigenetic switch to foraging. Genome-wide profiling during reprogramming reveals CoREST represses expression of enzymes that degrade juvenile hormone (JH), a hormone elevated upon reprogramming. High CoREST, low JH-degrader expression, and high JH levels are mirrored in natural Minors, revealing parallel mechanisms of natural and reprogrammed foraging. These results unveil chromatin regulation via CoREST as central to programming of ant social behavior, with potential far-reaching implications for behavioral epigenetics."	0
"32726616"	"PHF7 Modulates BRDT Stability and Histone-to-Protamine Exchange during Spermiogenesis.Spermatogenesis is a complex process of sperm generation, including mitosis, meiosis, and spermiogenesis. During spermiogenesis, histones in post-meiotic spermatids are removed from chromatin and replaced by protamines. Although histone-to-protamine exchange is important for sperm nuclear condensation, the underlying regulatory mechanism is still poorly understood. Here, we identify PHD finger protein 7 (PHF7) as an E3 ubiquitin ligase for histone H3K14 in post-meiotic spermatids. Generation of Phf7-deficient mice and Phf7 C160A knockin mice with impaired E3 ubiquitin ligase activity reveals defects in histone-to-protamine exchange caused by dysregulation of histone removal factor Bromodomain, testis-specific (BRDT) in early condensing spermatids. Surprisingly, E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of PHF7 on histone ubiquitination leads to stabilization of BRDT by attenuating ubiquitination of BRDT. Collectively, our findings identify PHF7 as a critical factor for sperm chromatin condensation and contribute to mechanistic understanding of fundamental phenomenon of histone-to-protamine exchange and potential for drug development for the male reproduction system."	1
"31402097"	"Osh Proteins Control Nanoscale Lipid Organization Necessary for PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> Synthesis.The plasma membrane (PM) is composed of a complex lipid mixture that forms heterogeneous membrane environments. Yet, how small-scale lipid organization controls physiological events at the PM remains largely unknown. Here, we show that ORP-related Osh lipid exchange proteins are critical for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>], a key regulator of dynamic events at the PM. In real-time assays, we find that unsaturated phosphatidylserine (PS) and sterols, both Osh protein ligands, synergistically stimulate phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) activity. Biophysical FRET analyses suggest an unconventional co-distribution of unsaturated PS and phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) species in sterol-containing membrane bilayers. Moreover, using in vivo imaging approaches and molecular dynamics simulations, we show that Osh protein-mediated unsaturated PI4P and PS membrane lipid organization is sensed by the PIP5K specificity loop. Thus, ORP family members create a nanoscale membrane lipid environment that drives PIP5K activity and PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> synthesis that ultimately controls global PM organization and dynamics."	1
"32459988"	"Biomarker-Guided Development of DNA Repair Inhibitors.Anti-cancer drugs targeting the DNA damage response (DDR) exploit genetic or functional defects in this pathway through synthetic lethal mechanisms. For example, defects in homologous recombination (HR) repair arise in cancer cells through inherited or acquired mutations in BRCA1, BRCA2, or other genes in the Fanconi anemia/BRCA pathway, and these tumors have been shown to be particularly sensitive to inhibitors of the base excision repair (BER) protein poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Recent work has identified additional genomic and functional assays of DNA repair that provide new predictive and pharmacodynamic biomarkers for these targeted therapies. Here, we examine the development of selective agents targeting DNA repair, including PARP inhibitors; inhibitors of the DNA damage kinases ataxia-telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR), CHK1, WEE1, and ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM); and inhibitors of classical non-homologous end joining (cNHEJ) and alternative end joining (Alt EJ). We also review the biomarkers that guide the use of these agents and current clinical trials with these therapies."	0
"32645369"	"RNF126-Mediated Reubiquitination Is Required for Proteasomal Degradation of p97-Extracted Membrane Proteins.Valosin-containing protein (VCP)/p97 is an AAA-ATPase that extracts polyubiquitinated substrates from multimeric macromolecular complexes and biological membranes for proteasomal degradation. During p97-mediated extraction, the substrate is largely deubiquitinated as it is threaded through the p97 central pore. How p97-extracted substrates are targeted to the proteasome with few or no ubiquitins is unknown. Here, we report that p97-extracted membrane proteins undergo a second round of ubiquitination catalyzed by the cytosolic ubiquitin ligase RNF126. RNF126 interacts with transmembrane-domain-specific chaperone BAG6, which captures p97-liberated substrates. RNF126 depletion in cells diminishes the ubiquitination of extracted membrane proteins, slows down their turnover, and dramatically stabilizes otherwise transient intermediates in the cytosol. We reconstitute the reubiquitination of a p97-extracted, misfolded multispanning membrane protein with purified factors. Our results demonstrate that p97-extracted substrates need to rapidly engage ubiquitin ligase-chaperone pairs that rebuild the ubiquitin signal for proteasome targeting to prevent harmful accumulation of unfolded intermediates."	1
"32402289"	"Foxo3 Promotes the Differentiation and Function of Follicular Helper T Cells.Follicular helper T cells (Tfhs) are essential for germinal center (GC) B cell maturation and antibody development. However, the intrinsic mechanisms that regulate Tfh differentiation are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the frequencies of Tfhs and GC B cells, as well as interleukin-21 (IL-21) and anti-ovalbumin (OVA) antibodies, are markedly decreased in forkhead box O3 (Foxo3) knockout mice immunized with OVA. Using mixed bone marrow chimeras and lymphocyte-repopulated Rag1<sup>-/-</sup> mice proves that wild-type (WT), but not Foxo3-deficient T cells provoke GC B cell maturation and antibody production. Deficiency of Foxo3 inhibits inducible T cell co-stimulator (ICOS)-induced Tfh differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay results suggest that Foxo3 is able to bind to the IL-21 promoter and regulate IL-21 secretion. In conclusion, our study unveils a critical role of Foxo3 in the regulation of Tfh differentiation and IL-21 production. Modulating Foxo3 activity may be beneficial for enhancing or preventing antibody-mediated immune responses."	1
"31857346"	"CDK7 regulates organ size and tumor growth by safeguarding the Hippo pathway effector Yki/Yap/Taz in the nucleus.Hippo signaling controls organ size and tumor progression through a conserved pathway leading to nuclear translocation of the transcriptional effector Yki/Yap/Taz. Most of our understanding of Hippo signaling pertains to its cytoplasmic regulation, but how the pathway is controlled in the nucleus remains poorly understood. Here we uncover an evolutionarily conserved mechanism by which CDK7 promotes Yki/Yap/Taz stabilization in the nucleus to sustain Hippo pathway outputs. We found that a modular E3 ubiquitin ligase complex CRL4<sup>DCAF12</sup> binds and targets Yki/Yap/Taz for ubiquitination and degradation, whereas CDK7 phosphorylates Yki/Yap/Taz at S169/S128/S90 to inhibit CRL4<sup>DCAF12</sup> recruitment, leading to Yki/Yap/Taz stabilization. As a consequence, inactivation of CDK7 reduced organ size and inhibited tumor growth, which could be reversed by restoring Yki/Yap activity. Our study identifies an unanticipated layer of Hippo pathway regulation, defines a novel mechanism by which CDK7 regulates tissue growth, and implies CDK7 as a drug target for Yap/Taz-driven cancer."	1
"32354837"	"4E-T-bound mRNAs are stored in a silenced and deadenylated form.Human 4E-T is an eIF4E-binding protein (4E-BP) present in processing (P)-bodies that represses translation and regulates decay of mRNAs destabilized by AU-rich elements and microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we show that upon mRNA binding 4E-T represses translation and promotes deadenylation via the recruitment of the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. The interaction with CCR4-NOT is mediated by previously uncharacterized sites in the middle region of 4E-T. Importantly, mRNA decapping and decay are inhibited by 4E-T and the deadenylated target is stored in a repressed form. Inhibition of mRNA decapping requires the interaction of 4E-T with the cap-binding proteins eIF4E/4EHP. We further show that regulation of decapping by 4E-T participates in mRNA repression by the miRNA effector protein TNRC6B and that 4E-T overexpression interferes with tristetraprolin (TTP)- and NOT1-mediated mRNA decay. Thus, we postulate that 4E-T modulates 5'-to-3' decay by swapping the fate of a deadenylated mRNA from complete degradation to storage. Our results provide insight into the mechanism of mRNA storage that controls localized translation and mRNA stability in P-bodies."	1
"32877671"	"Tp53 Suppression Promotes Cardiomyocyte Proliferation during Zebrafish Heart Regeneration.Zebrafish regenerate heart muscle through division of pre-existing cardiomyocytes. To discover underlying regulation, we assess transcriptome datasets for dynamic gene networks during heart regeneration and identify suppression of genes associated with the transcription factor Tp53. Cardiac damage leads to fluctuation of Tp53 protein levels, concomitant with induced expression of its central negative regulator, mdm2, in regenerating cardiomyocytes. Zebrafish lacking functional Tp53 display increased indicators of cardiomyocyte proliferation during regeneration, whereas transgenic Mdm2 blockade inhibits injury-induced cardiomyocyte proliferation. Induced myocardial overexpression of the mitogenic factors Nrg1 or Vegfaa in the absence of injury also upregulates mdm2 and suppresses Tp53 levels, and tp53 mutations augment the mitogenic effects of Nrg1. mdm2 induction is spatiotemporally associated with markers of de-differentiation in injury and growth contexts, suggesting a broad role in cardiogenesis. Our findings reveal myocardial Tp53 suppression by mitogen-induced Mdm2 as a regulatory component of innate cardiac regeneration."	1
"32115408"	"Cerebral organoid and mouse models reveal a RAB39b-PI3K-mTOR pathway-dependent dysregulation of cortical development leading to macrocephaly/autism phenotypes.Dysregulation of early neurodevelopment is implicated in macrocephaly/autism disorders. However, the mechanism underlying this dysregulation, particularly in human cells, remains poorly understood. Mutations in the small GTPase gene <i>RAB39b</i> are associated with X-linked macrocephaly, autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and intellectual disability. The in vivo roles of RAB39b in the brain remain unknown. We generated <i>Rab39b</i> knockout (KO) mice and found that they exhibited cortical neurogenesis impairment, macrocephaly, and hallmark ASD behaviors, which resembled patient phenotypes. We also produced mutant human cerebral organoids that were substantially enlarged due to the overproliferation and impaired differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs), which resemble neurodevelopmental deficits in KO mice. Mechanistic studies reveal that RAB39b interacts with PI3K components and its deletion promotes PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling in NPCs of mouse cortex and cerebral organoids. The mTOR activity is robustly enhanced in mutant outer radial glia cells (oRGs), a subtype of NPCs barely detectable in rodents but abundant in human brains. Inhibition of AKT signaling rescued enlarged organoid sizes and NPC overproliferation caused by <i>RAB39b</i> mutations. Therefore, <i>RAB39b</i> mutation promotes PI3K-AKT-mTOR activity and alters cortical neurogenesis, leading to macrocephaly and autistic-like behaviors. Our studies provide new insights into neurodevelopmental dysregulation and common pathways associated with ASD across species."	1
"32294449"	"Cell Metabolic Alterations due to Mcph1 Mutation in Microcephaly.A distinctive feature of neocortical development is the highly coordinated production of different progenitor cell subtypes, which are critical for ensuring adequate neurogenic outcome and the development of normal neocortical size. To further understand the mechanisms that underlie neocortical growth, we focused our studies on the microcephaly gene Mcph1, and we report here that Mcph1 (1) exerts its functions in rapidly dividing apical radial glial cells (aRGCs) during mouse neocortical development stages that precede indirect neurogenesis; (2) is expressed at mitochondria; and (3) controls the proper proliferation and survival of RGCs, potentially through crosstalk with cellular metabolic pathways involving the stimulation of mitochondrial activity via VDAC1/GRP75 and AKT/HK2/VDAC1 and glutaminolysis via ATF4/PCK2. We currently report the description of a MCPH-gene implication in the interplay between bioenergetic pathways and neocortical growth, thus pointing to alterations of cellular metabolic pathways, in particular glutaminolysis, as a possible cause of microcephalic pathogenesis."	1
"31896688"	"Linking cancer transcriptional addictions by CDK7 to YAP/TAZ.Inhibition of CDK7 is a promising strategy for cancer therapy. CDK7 so far has been understood mainly in the context of Pol II-driven transcription. However, how are the roles of CDK7 in the ""basal"" transcriptional machinery reconciled with the function of CDK7 as inducer of specific transcriptional programs in tumor cells? In this issue of <i>Genes & Development</i>, Cho and colleagues (pp. 53-71) advance in this direction, demonstrating that attenuation of CDK7 fosters the oncogenic activity of the YAP/TAZ/Yki coactivators. CDK7 directly phosphorylates YAP/TAZ/Yki in the nucleus, protecting them from ubiquitination and degradation, in a manner independent from the Hippo cascade and independent from CDK7 basal transcriptional functions."	0
"31278054"	"TSPYL5 Depletion Induces Specific Death of ALT Cells through USP7-Dependent Proteasomal Degradation of POT1.A significant fraction (∼10%) of cancer cells maintain their telomere length via a telomerase-independent mechanism known as alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). There are no known molecular, ALT-specific, therapeutic targets. We have identified TSPYL5 (testis-specific Y-encoded-like protein 5) as a PML body component, co-localizing with ALT telomeres and critical for ALT<sup>+</sup> cell viability. TSPYL5 was described as an inhibitor of the USP7 deubiquitinase. We report that TSPYL5 prevents the poly-ubiquitination of POT1-a shelterin component-and protects POT1 from proteasomal degradation exclusively in ALT<sup>+</sup> cells. USP7 depletion rescued POT1 poly-ubiquitination and loss, suggesting that the deubiquitinase activates POT1 E3 ubiquitin ligase(s). Similarly, PML depletion suppressed POT1 poly-ubiquitination, suggesting an interplay between USP7 and PML to trigger POT1 degradation in TSPYL5-depleted ALT<sup>+</sup> cells. We demonstrate that ALT telomeres need to be protected from POT1 degradation in ALT-associated PML bodies and identify TSPYL5 as an ALT<sup>+</sup> cancer-specific therapeutic target."	1
"32783943"	"Acetylation Stabilizes Phosphoglycerate Dehydrogenase by Disrupting the Interaction of E3 Ligase RNF5 to Promote Breast Tumorigenesis.Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) is the first enzyme in the serine synthesis pathway in which it is also the rate-limiting enzyme. It is significantly upregulated in many cancers, especially breast cancer. However, the posttranslational mechanism of PHGDH upregulation in breast cancer is unknown. In this study, we find that RNF5, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is essential for the degradation of PHGDH protein. PHGDH is degraded by RNF5 to prevent the proliferation of breast cancer cells. The acetylation of PHGDH at K58 is able to disrupt the interaction of RNF5-PHGDH and promote the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Tip60 and SIRT2 regulate the reversible acetylation modification of PHGDH in response to glucose alteration. Moreover, PHGDH is significantly upregulated in samples of human breast cancer and is associated with decreased RNF5 expression. This implies a potential therapeutic target through the interference interaction of PHGDH-RNF5 to degrade PHGDH in breast cancer."	1
"30554943"	"Interactome Rewiring Following Pharmacological Targeting of BET Bromodomains.Targeting bromodomains (BRDs) of the bromo-and-extra-terminal (BET) family offers opportunities for therapeutic intervention in cancer and other diseases. Here, we profile the interactomes of BRD2, BRD3, BRD4, and BRDT following treatment with the pan-BET BRD inhibitor JQ1, revealing broad rewiring of the interaction landscape, with three distinct classes of behavior for the 603 unique interactors identified. A group of proteins associate in a JQ1-sensitive manner with BET BRDs through canonical and new binding modes, while two classes of extra-terminal (ET)-domain binding motifs mediate acetylation-independent interactions. Last, we identify an unexpected increase in several interactions following JQ1 treatment that define negative functions for BRD3 in the regulation of rRNA synthesis and potentially RNAPII-dependent gene expression that result in decreased cell proliferation. Together, our data highlight the contributions of BET protein modules to their interactomes allowing for a better understanding of pharmacological rewiring in response to JQ1."	0
"32493772"	"Two clusters of surface-exposed amino acid residues enable high-affinity binding of retinal degeneration-3 (RD3) protein to retinal guanylyl cyclase.Retinal degeneration-3 (RD3) protein protects photoreceptors from degeneration by preventing retinal guanylyl cyclase (RetGC) activation via calcium-sensing guanylyl cyclase-activating proteins (GCAP), and RD3 truncation causes severe congenital blindness in humans and other animals. The three-dimensional structure of RD3 has recently been established, but the molecular mechanisms of its inhibitory binding to RetGC remain unclear. Here, we report the results of probing 133 surface-exposed residues in RD3 by single substitutions and deletions to identify side chains that are critical for the inhibitory binding of RD3 to RetGC. We tested the effects of these substitutions and deletions <i>in vitro</i> by reconstituting purified RD3 variants with GCAP1-activated human RetGC1. Although the vast majority of the surface-exposed residues tolerated substitutions without loss of RD3's inhibitory activity, substitutions in two distinct narrow clusters located on the opposite sides of the molecule effectively suppressed RD3 binding to the cyclase. The first surface-exposed cluster included residues adjacent to Leu<sup>63</sup> in the loop connecting helices 1 and 2. The second cluster surrounded Arg<sup>101</sup> on a surface of helix 3. Single substitutions in those two clusters drastically, <i>i.e.</i> up to 245-fold, reduced the IC<sub>50</sub> for the cyclase inhibition. Inactivation of the two binding sites completely disabled binding of RD3 to RetGC1 in living HEK293 cells. In contrast, deletion of 49 C-terminal residues did not affect the apparent affinity of RD3 for RetGC. Our findings identify the functional interface on RD3 required for its inhibitory binding to RetGC, a process essential for protecting photoreceptors from degeneration."	0
"32647010"	"Simplified detection of polyhistidine-tagged proteins in gels and membranes using a UV-excitable dye and a multiple chelator head pair.The polyhistidine tag (His-tag) is one of the most popular protein tags used in the life sciences. Traditionally, the detection of His-tagged proteins relies on immunoblotting with anti-His antibodies. This approach is laborious for certain applications, such as protein purification, where time and simplicity are critical. The His-tag can also be directly detected by metal ion-loaded nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid-based chelator heads conjugated to fluorophores, which is a convenient alternative method to immunoblotting. Typically, such chelator heads are conjugated to either green or red fluorophores, the detection of which requires specialized excitation sources and detection systems. Here, we demonstrate that post-run staining is ideal for His-tag detection by metal ion-loaded and fluorescently labeled chelator heads in PAGE and blot membranes. Additionally, by comparing the performances of different chelator heads, we show how differences in microscopic affinity constants translate to macroscopic differences in the detection limits in environments with limited diffusion, such as PAGE. On the basis of these results, we devise a simple approach, called UVHis-PAGE, that uses metal ion-loaded and fluorescently labeled chelator heads to detect His-tagged proteins in PAGE and blot membranes. Our method uses a UV transilluminator as an excitation source, and the results can be visually inspected by the naked eye."	0
"32187535"	"Morphine and Naloxone Facilitate Neural Stem Cells Proliferation via a TET1-Dependent and Receptor-Independent Pathway.Normally, opioids function in a receptor-dependent manner. They bind to opioid receptors, activate or inhibit receptor activation, and subsequently modulate downstream signal transduction. However, the complex functions of opioids and the low expression of opioid receptors and their endogenous peptide agonists in neural stem cells (NSCs) suggest that some opioids may also modulate NSCs via a receptor-independent pathway. In the current study, two opioids, morphine and naloxone, are demonstrated to facilitate NSC proliferation via a receptor-independent and ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1)-dependent pathway. Morphine and naloxone penetrate cell membrane, bind to TET1 protein via three key residues (1,880-1,882), and subsequently result in facilitated proliferation of NSCs. In addition, the two opioids also inhibit the DNA demethylation ability of TET1. In summary, the current results connect opioids and DNA demethylation directly at least in NSCs and extend our understanding on both opioids and NSCs."	1
"31968264"	"Transcriptional Programming of Human Mechanosensory Neuron Subtypes from Pluripotent Stem Cells.Efficient and homogeneous in vitro generation of peripheral sensory neurons may provide a framework for novel drug screening platforms and disease models of touch and pain. We discover that, by overexpressing NGN2 and BRN3A, human pluripotent stem cells can be transcriptionally programmed to differentiate into a surprisingly uniform culture of cold- and mechano-sensing neurons. Although such a neuronal subtype is not found in mice, we identify molecular evidence for its existence in human sensory ganglia. Combining NGN2 and BRN3A programming with neural crest patterning, we produce two additional populations of sensory neurons, including a specialized touch receptor neuron subtype. Finally, we apply this system to model a rare inherited sensory disorder of touch and proprioception caused by inactivating mutations in PIEZO2. Together, these findings establish an approach to specify distinct sensory neuron subtypes in vitro, underscoring the utility of stem cell technology to capture human-specific features of physiology and disease."	0
"30527665"	"Phosphorylated RB Promotes Cancer Immunity by Inhibiting NF-κB Activation and PD-L1 Expression.Aberrant expression of programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) in tumor cells promotes cancer progression by suppressing cancer immunity. The retinoblastoma protein RB is a tumor suppressor known to regulate the cell cycle, DNA damage response, and differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that RB interacts with nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) protein p65 and that their interaction is primarily dependent on CDK4/6-mediated serine-249/threonine-252 (S249/T252) phosphorylation of RB. RNA-seq analysis shows a subset of NF-κB pathway genes including PD-L1 are selectively upregulated by RB knockdown or CDK4/6 inhibitor. S249/T252-phosphorylated RB inversely correlates with PD-L1 expression in patient samples. Expression of a RB-derived S249/T252 phosphorylation-mimetic peptide suppresses radiotherapy-induced upregulation of PD-L1 and augments therapeutic efficacy of radiation in vivo. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized tumor suppressor function of hyperphosphorylated RB in suppressing NF-κB activity and PD-L1 expression and suggest that the RB-NF-κB axis can be exploited to overcome cancer immune evasion triggered by conventional or targeted therapies."	1
"31968240"	"Follicular Regulatory T Cells Can Access the Germinal Center Independently of CXCR5.The germinal center (GC) response is critical for generating high-affinity humoral immunity and immunological memory, which forms the basis of successful immunization. Control of the GC response is thought to require follicular regulatory T (Tfr) cells, a subset of suppressive Foxp3<sup>+</sup> regulatory T cells located within GCs. Relatively little is known about the exact role of Tfr cells within the GC and how they exert their suppressive function. A unique feature of Tfr cells is their reported CXCR5-dependent localization to the GC. Here, we show that the lack of CXCR5 on Foxp3<sup>+</sup> regulatory T cells results in a reduced frequency, but not an absence, of GC-localized Tfr cells. This reduction in Tfr cells is not sufficient to alter the magnitude or output of the GC response. This demonstrates that additional, CXCR5-independent mechanisms facilitate Treg cell homing to the GC."	0
"32727845"	"Identification of an anti-SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain-directed human monoclonal antibody from a naïve semisynthetic library.There is a desperate need for safe and effective vaccines, therapies, and diagnostics for SARS- coronavirus 2 (CoV-2), the development of which will be aided by the discovery of potent and selective antibodies against relevant viral epitopes. Human phage display technology has revolutionized the process of identifying and optimizing antibodies, providing facile entry points for further applications. Herein, we use this technology to search for antibodies targeting the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of CoV-2. Specifically, we screened a naïve human semisynthetic phage library against RBD, leading to the identification of a high-affinity single-chain fragment variable region (scFv). The scFv was further engineered into two other antibody formats (scFv-Fc and IgG1). All three antibody formats showed high binding specificity to CoV-2 RBD and the spike antigens in different assay systems. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated specific binding of the IgG1 format to cells expressing membrane-bound CoV-2 spike protein. Docking studies revealed that the scFv recognizes an epitope that partially overlaps with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-interacting sites on the CoV-2 RBD. Given its high specificity and affinity, we anticipate that these anti-CoV-2 antibodies will be useful as valuable reagents for accessing the antigenicity of vaccine candidates, as well as developing antibody-based therapeutics and diagnostics for CoV-2."	0
"32780989"	"GIT/PIX Condensates Are Modular and Ideal for Distinct Compartmentalized Cell Signaling.Enzymes or enzyme complexes can be concentrated in different cellular loci to modulate distinct functional processes in response to specific signals. How cells condense and compartmentalize enzyme complexes for spatiotemporally distinct cellular events is not well understood. Here we discover that specific and tight association of GIT1 and β-Pix, a pair of GTPase regulatory enzymes, leads to phase separation of the complex without additional scaffolding molecules. GIT1/β-Pix condensates are modular in nature and can be positioned at distinct cellular compartments, such as neuronal synapses, focal adhesions, and cell-cell junctions, by upstream adaptors. Guided by the structure of the GIT/PIX complex, we specifically probed the role of phase separation of the enzyme complex in cell migration and synapse formation. Our study suggests that formation of modular enzyme complex condensates via phase separation can dynamically concentrate limited quantities of enzymes to distinct cellular compartments for specific and optimal signaling."	1
"32303635"	"Transcriptome profiling and protease inhibition experiments identify proteases that activate H3N2 influenza A and influenza B viruses in murine airways.Cleavage of influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) by host proteases is essential for virus infectivity. HA of most influenza A and B (IAV/IBV) viruses is cleaved at a monobasic motif by trypsin-like proteases. Previous studies have reported that transmembrane serine protease 2 (TMPRSS2) is essential for activation of H7N9 and H1N1pdm IAV in mice but that H3N2 IAV and IBV activation is independent of TMPRSS2 and carried out by as-yet-undetermined protease(s). Here, to identify additional H3 IAV- and IBV-activating proteases, we used RNA-Seq to investigate the protease repertoire of murine lower airway tissues, primary type II alveolar epithelial cells (AECIIs), and the mouse lung cell line MLE-15. Among 13 candidates identified, TMPRSS4, TMPRSS13, hepsin, and prostasin activated H3 and IBV HA <i>in vitro</i> IBV activation and replication was reduced in AECIIs from <i>Tmprss2/Tmprss4</i>-deficient mice compared with WT or Tmprss2-deficient mice, indicating that murine TMPRSS4 is involved in IBV activation. Multicycle replication of H3N2 IAV and IBV in AECIIs of <i>Tmprss2/Tmprss4</i>-deficient mice varied in sensitivity to protease inhibitors, indicating that different, but overlapping, sets of murine proteases facilitate H3 and IBV HA cleavages. Interestingly, human hepsin and prostasin orthologs did not activate H3, but they did activate IBV HA <i>in vitro</i> Our results indicate that TMPRSS4 is an IBV-activating protease in murine AECIIs and suggest that TMPRSS13, hepsin, and prostasin cleave H3 and IBV HA in mice. They further show that hepsin and prostasin orthologs might contribute to the differences observed in TMPRSS2-independent activation of H3 in murine and human airways."	0
"30849394"	"Global Positioning System: Understanding Long Noncoding RNAs through Subcellular Localization.The localization of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) within the cell is the primary determinant of their molecular functions. LncRNAs are often thought of as chromatin-restricted regulators of gene transcription and chromatin structure. However, a rich population of cytoplasmic lncRNAs has come to light, with diverse roles including translational regulation, signaling, and respiration. RNA maps of increasing resolution and scope are revealing a subcellular world of highly specific localization patterns and hint at sequence-based address codes specifying lncRNA fates. We propose a new framework for analyzing sequencing-based data, which suggests that numbers of cytoplasmic lncRNA molecules rival those in the nucleus. New techniques promise to create high-resolution, transcriptome-wide maps associated with all organelles of the mammalian cell. Given its intimate link to molecular roles, subcellular localization provides a means of unlocking the mystery of lncRNA functions."	0
"32460019"	"Regulation of Expression of Autophagy Genes by Atg8a-Interacting Partners Sequoia, YL-1, and Sir2 in Drosophila.Autophagy is the degradation of cytoplasmic material through the lysosomal pathway. One of the most studied autophagy-related proteins is LC3. Despite growing evidence that LC3 is enriched in the nucleus, its nuclear role is poorly understood. Here, we show that Drosophila Atg8a protein, homologous to mammalian LC3, interacts with the transcription factor Sequoia in a LIR motif-dependent manner. We show that Sequoia depletion induces autophagy in nutrient-rich conditions through the enhanced expression of autophagy genes. We show that Atg8a interacts with YL-1, a component of a nuclear acetyltransferase complex, and that it is acetylated in nutrient-rich conditions. We also show that Atg8a interacts with the deacetylase Sir2, which deacetylates Atg8a during starvation to activate autophagy. Our results suggest a mechanism of regulation of the expression of autophagy genes by Atg8a, which is linked to its acetylation status and its interaction with Sequoia, YL-1, and Sir2."	1
"32937137"	"LIM-Homeodomain Transcription Factor LHX4 Is Required for the Differentiation of Retinal Rod Bipolar Cells and OFF-Cone Bipolar Subtypes.Retinal bipolar cells (BCs) connect with photoreceptors and relay visual information to retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Retina-specific deletion of Lhx4 in mice results in a visual defect resembling human congenital stationary night blindness. This visual dysfunction results from the absence of rod bipolar cells (RBCs) and the loss of selective rod-connecting cone bipolar cell (CBC) subtypes and AII amacrine cells (ACs). Inactivation of Lhx4 causes the apoptosis of BCs and cell fate switch from some BCs to ACs, whereas Lhx4 overexpression promotes BC genesis. Moreover, Lhx4 positively regulates Lhx3 expression to drive the fate choice of type 2 BCs over the GABAergic ACs. Lhx4 inactivation ablates Bhlhe23 expression, whereas overexpression of Bhlhe23 partially rescues RBC development in the absence of Lhx4. Thus, by acting upstream of Bhlhe23, Prdm8, Fezf2, Lhx3, and other BC genes, Lhx4, together with Isl1, could play essential roles in regulating the subtype-specific development of RBCs and CBCs."	0
"32381627"	"ALS/FTD-associated protein FUS induces mitochondrial dysfunction by preferentially sequestering respiratory chain complex mRNAs.Dysregulation of the DNA/RNA-binding protein FUS causes certain subtypes of ALS/FTD by largely unknown mechanisms. Recent evidence has shown that FUS toxic gain of function due either to mutations or to increased expression can disrupt critical cellular processes, including mitochondrial functions. Here, we demonstrate that in human cells overexpressing wild-type FUS or expressing mutant derivatives, the protein associates with multiple mRNAs, and these are enriched in mRNAs encoding mitochondrial respiratory chain components. Notably, this sequestration leads to reduced levels of the encoded proteins, which is sufficient to bring about disorganized mitochondrial networks, reduced aerobic respiration and increased reactive oxygen species. We further show that mutant FUS associates with mitochondria and with mRNAs encoded by the mitochondrial genome. Importantly, similar results were also observed in fibroblasts derived from ALS patients with FUS mutations. Finally, we demonstrate that FUS loss of function does not underlie the observed mitochondrial dysfunction, and also provides a mechanism for the preferential sequestration of the respiratory chain complex mRNAs by FUS that does not involve sequence-specific binding. Together, our data reveal that respiratory chain complex mRNA sequestration underlies the mitochondrial defects characteristic of ALS/FTD and contributes to the FUS toxic gain of function linked to this disease spectrum."	0
"32277910"	"Division of Labor between PCNA Loaders in DNA Replication and Sister Chromatid Cohesion Establishment.Concomitant with DNA replication, the chromosomal cohesin complex establishes cohesion between newly replicated sister chromatids. Several replication-fork-associated ""cohesion establishment factors,"" including the multifunctional Ctf18-RFC complex, aid this process in as yet unknown ways. Here, we show that Ctf18-RFC's role in sister chromatid cohesion correlates with PCNA loading but is separable from its role in the replication checkpoint. Ctf18-RFC loads PCNA with a slight preference for the leading strand, which is dispensable for DNA replication. Conversely, the canonical Rfc1-RFC complex preferentially loads PCNA onto the lagging strand, which is crucial for DNA replication but dispensable for sister chromatid cohesion. The downstream effector of Ctf18-RFC is cohesin acetylation, which we place toward a late step during replication maturation. Our results suggest that Ctf18-RFC enriches and balances PCNA levels at the replication fork, beyond the needs of DNA replication, to promote establishment of sister chromatid cohesion and possibly other post-replicative processes."	0
"32610126"	"Counter Regulation of Spic by NF-κB and STAT Signaling Controls Inflammation and Iron Metabolism in Macrophages.Activated macrophages must carefully calibrate their inflammatory responses to balance efficient pathogen control with inflammation-mediated tissue damage, but the molecular underpinnings of this ""balancing act"" remain unclear. Using genetically engineered mouse models and primary macrophage cultures, we show that Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling induces the expression of the transcription factor Spic selectively in patrolling monocytes and tissue macrophages by a nuclear factor κB (NF-κB)-dependent mechanism. Functionally, Spic downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines and promotes iron efflux by regulating ferroportin expression in activated macrophages. Notably, interferon-gamma blocks Spic expression in a STAT1-dependent manner. High levels of interferon-gamma are indicative of ongoing infection, and in its absence, activated macrophages appear to engage a ""default"" Spic-dependent anti-inflammatory pathway. We also provide evidence for the engagement of this pathway in sterile inflammation. Taken together, our findings uncover a pathway wherein counter-regulation of Spic by NF-κB and STATs attune inflammatory responses and iron metabolism in macrophages."	1
"31812349"	"Functional Translatome Proteomics Reveal Converging and Dose-Dependent Regulation by mTORC1 and eIF2α.Regulation of translation is essential during stress. However, the precise sets of proteins regulated by the key translational stress responses-the integrated stress response (ISR) and mTORC1-remain elusive. We developed multiplexed enhanced protein dynamics (mePROD) proteomics, adding signal amplification to dynamic-SILAC and multiplexing, to enable measuring acute changes in protein synthesis. Treating cells with ISR/mTORC1-modulating stressors, we showed extensive translatome modulation with ∼20% of proteins synthesized at highly reduced rates. Comparing translation-deficient sub-proteomes revealed an extensive overlap demonstrating that target specificity is achieved on protein level and not by pathway activation. Titrating cap-dependent translation inhibition confirmed that synthesis of individual proteins is controlled by intrinsic properties responding to global translation attenuation. This study reports a highly sensitive method to measure relative translation at the nascent chain level and provides insight into how the ISR and mTORC1, two key cellular pathways, regulate the translatome to guide cellular survival upon stress."	0
"32698014"	"Tissue-Specific Regulation of the Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway by PAGE4 Inhibition of Tankyrase.Spatiotemporal control of Wnt/β-catenin signaling is critical for organism development and homeostasis. The poly-(ADP)-ribose polymerase Tankyrase (TNKS1) promotes Wnt/β-catenin signaling through PARylation-mediated degradation of AXIN1, a component of the β-catenin destruction complex. Although Wnt/β-catenin is a niche-restricted signaling program, tissue-specific factors that regulate TNKS1 are not known. Here, we report prostate-associated gene 4 (PAGE4) as a tissue-specific TNKS1 inhibitor that robustly represses canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling in human cells, zebrafish, and mice. Structural and biochemical studies reveal that PAGE4 acts as an optimal substrate decoy that potently hijacks substrate binding sites on TNKS1 to prevent AXIN1 PARylation and degradation. Consistently, transgenic expression of PAGE4 in mice phenocopies TNKS1 knockout. Physiologically, PAGE4 is selectively expressed in stromal prostate fibroblasts and functions to establish a proper Wnt/β-catenin signaling niche through suppression of autocrine signaling. Our findings reveal a non-canonical mechanism for TNKS1 inhibition that functions to establish tissue-specific control of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway."	1
"32846130"	"BIRC2 Expression Impairs Anti-Cancer Immunity and Immunotherapy Efficacy.Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has led to therapeutic responses in some cancer patients for whom no effective treatment previously existed. ICB acts on T lymphocytes and other immune cells that are inactivated due to checkpoint signals that inhibit their infiltration and function within tumors. But for more than 80% of patients, immunotherapy has not been effective. Here, we demonstrate a cancer-cell-intrinsic mechanism of immune evasion and resistance to ICB mediated by baculoviral IAP repeat-containing 2 (BIRC2). Knockdown of BIRC2 expression in mouse melanoma or breast cancer cells increases expression of the chemokine CXCL9 and impairs tumor growth by increasing the number of intratumoral activated CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells. Administration of anti-CXCL9 neutralizing antibody inhibits the recruitment of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells to BIRC2-deficient tumors. Most importantly, BIRC2 deficiency dramatically increases the sensitivity of mouse melanoma and breast tumors to anti-CTLA4 and/or anti-PD1 ICB."	1
"32001512"	"Recurrent SRSF2 mutations in MDS affect both splicing and NMD.Oncogenic mutations in the RNA splicing factors SRSF2, SF3B1, and U2AF1 are the most frequent class of mutations in myelodysplastic syndromes and are also common in clonal hematopoiesis, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and a variety of solid tumors. They cause genome-wide splicing alterations that affect important regulators of hematopoiesis. Several mRNA isoforms promoted by the various splicing factor mutants comprise a premature termination codon (PTC) and are therefore potential targets of nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). In light of the mechanistic relationship between splicing and NMD, we sought evidence for a specific role of mutant SRSF2 in NMD. We show that SRSF2 Pro95 hot spot mutations elicit enhanced mRNA decay, which is dependent on sequence-specific RNA binding and splicing. SRSF2 mutants enhance the deposition of exon junction complexes (EJCs) downstream from the PTC through RNA-mediated molecular interactions. This architecture then favors the association of key NMD factors to elicit mRNA decay. Gene-specific blocking of EJC deposition by antisense oligonucleotides circumvents aberrant NMD promoted by mutant SRSF2, restoring the expression of PTC-containing transcript. Our study uncovered critical effects of SRSF2 mutants in hematologic malignancies, reflecting the regulation at multiple levels of RNA metabolism, from splicing to decay."	0
"32049023"	"SENP3 Suppresses Osteoclastogenesis by De-conjugating SUMO2/3 from IRF8 in Bone Marrow-Derived Monocytes.Bone metabolism depends on the balance between osteoclast-driven bone resorption and osteoblast-mediated bone formation. Diseases like osteoporosis are characterized by increased bone destruction due to partially enhanced osteoclastogenesis. Here, we report that the post-translational SUMO modification is critical for regulating osteoclastogenesis. The expression of the SUMO-specific protease SENP3 is downregulated in osteoclast precursors during osteoclast differentiation. Mice with SENP3 deficiency in bone marrow-derived monocytes (BMDMs) exhibit more severe bone loss due to over-activation of osteoclasts after ovariectomy. Deleting SENP3 in BMDMs promotes osteoclast differentiation. Mechanistically, loss of SENP3 increases interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) SUMO3 modification at the K310 amino acid site, which upregulates expression of the nuclear factor of activated T cell c1 (NFATc1) and osteoclastogenesis. In summary, IRF8 de-SUMO modification mediated by SENP3 suppresses osteoclast differentiation and suggests strategies to treat bone loss diseases."	1
"32783944"	"Single-Cell Profiling Shows Murine Forebrain Neural Stem Cells Reacquire a Developmental State when Activated for Adult Neurogenesis.The transitions from developing to adult quiescent and activated neural stem cells (NSCs) are not well understood. Here, we use single-cell transcriptional profiling and lineage tracing to characterize these transitions in the murine forebrain. We show that the two forebrain NSC parental populations, embryonic cortex and ganglionic eminence radial precursors (RPs), are highly similar even though they make glutamatergic versus gabaergic neurons. Both RP populations progress linearly to transition from a highly active embryonic to a dormant adult stem cell state that still shares many similarities with embryonic RPs. When adult NSCs of either embryonic origin become reactivated to make gabaergic neurons, they acquire a developing ganglionic eminence RP-like identity. Thus, transitions from embryonic RPs to adult NSCs and back to neuronal progenitors do not involve fundamental changes in cell identity, but rather reflect conversions between activated and dormant NSC states that may be determined by the niche environment."	0
"32561546"	"Collapse of the hepatic gene regulatory network in the absence of FoxA factors.The FoxA transcription factors are critical for liver development through their pioneering activity, which initiates a highly complex regulatory network thought to become progressively resistant to the loss of any individual hepatic transcription factor via mutual redundancy. To investigate the dispensability of FoxA factors for maintaining this regulatory network, we ablated all FoxA genes in the adult mouse liver. Remarkably, loss of FoxA caused rapid and massive reduction in the expression of critical liver genes. Activity of these genes was reduced back to the low levels of the fetal prehepatic endoderm stage, leading to necrosis and lethality within days. Mechanistically, we found FoxA proteins to be required for maintaining enhancer activity, chromatin accessibility, nucleosome positioning, and binding of HNF4α. Thus, the FoxA factors act continuously, guarding hepatic enhancer activity throughout adult life."	0
"32139421"	"Loss of an H3K9me anchor rescues laminopathy-linked changes in nuclear organization and muscle function in an Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy model.Mutations in the nuclear structural protein lamin A produce rare, tissue-specific diseases called laminopathies. The introduction of a human Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD)-inducing mutation into the <i>C. elegans</i> lamin (LMN-Y59C), recapitulates many muscular dystrophy phenotypes, and correlates with hyper-sequestration of a heterochromatic array at the nuclear periphery in muscle cells. Using muscle-specific emerin Dam-ID in worms, we monitored the effects of the mutation on endogenous chromatin. An increased contact with the nuclear periphery along chromosome arms, and an enhanced release of chromosomal centers, coincided with the disease phenotypes of reduced locomotion and compromised sarcomere integrity. The coupling of the LMN-Y59C mutation with the ablation of CEC-4, a chromodomain protein that anchors H3K9-methylated chromatin at the nuclear envelope (NE), suppressed the muscle-associated disease phenotypes. Deletion of <i>cec-4</i> also rescued LMN-Y59C-linked alterations in chromatin organization and some changes in transcription. Sequences that changed position in the LMN-Y59C mutant, are enriched for E2F (EFL-2)-binding sites, consistent with previous studies suggesting that altered Rb-E2F interaction with lamin A may contribute to muscle dysfunction. In summary, we were able to counteract the dominant muscle-specific defects provoked by LMNA mutation by the ablation of a lamin-associated H3K9me anchor, suggesting a novel therapeutic pathway for EDMD."	0
"32485148"	"ERK2 Phosphorylates PFAS to Mediate Posttranslational Control of De Novo Purine Synthesis.The RAS-ERK/MAPK (RAS-extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway integrates growth-promoting signals to stimulate cell growth and proliferation, at least in part, through alterations in metabolic gene expression. However, examples of direct and rapid regulation of the metabolic pathways by the RAS-ERK pathway remain elusive. We find that physiological and oncogenic ERK signaling activation leads to acute metabolic flux stimulation through the de novo purine synthesis pathway, thereby increasing building block availability for RNA and DNA synthesis, which is required for cell growth and proliferation. We demonstrate that ERK2, but not ERK1, phosphorylates the purine synthesis enzyme PFAS (phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase) at T619 in cells to stimulate de novo purine synthesis. The expression of nonphosphorylatable PFAS (T619A) decreases purine synthesis, RAS-dependent cancer cell-colony formation, and tumor growth. Thus, ERK2-mediated PFAS phosphorylation facilitates the increase in nucleic acid synthesis required for anabolic cell growth and proliferation."	1
"32580946"	"Muscarinic-dependent phosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor by protein kinase G is mediated by PI3K-AKT-nNOS signaling.Post-translational modifications of proteins involved in calcium handling in myocytes, such as the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2), critically regulate cardiac contractility. Recent studies have suggested that phosphorylation of RyR2 by protein kinase G (PKG) might contribute to the cardioprotective effects of cholinergic stimulation. However, the specific mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. Here, using murine ventricular myocytes, immunoblotting, proximity ligation as-says, and nitric oxide imaging, we report that phosphorylation of Ser-2808 in RyR2 induced by the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol is mediated by a signaling axis comprising phosphoinositide 3-phosphate kinase, Akt Ser/Thr kinase, nitric oxide synthase 1, nitric oxide, soluble guanylate cyclase, cyclic GMP (cGMP), and PKG. We found that this signaling pathway is compartmentalized in myocytes, as it was distinct from atrial natriuretic peptide receptor-cGMP-PKG-RyR2 Ser-2808 signaling and independent of muscarinic-induced phosphorylation of Ser-239 in vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein. These results provide detailed insights into muscarinic-induced PKG signaling and the mediators that regulate cardiac RyR2 phosphorylation critical for cardiovascular function."	1
"31676232"	"PRIMPOL-Mediated Adaptive Response Suppresses Replication Fork Reversal in BRCA-Deficient Cells.Acute treatment with replication-stalling chemotherapeutics causes reversal of replication forks. BRCA proteins protect reversed forks from nucleolytic degradation, and their loss leads to chemosensitivity. Here, we show that fork degradation is no longer detectable in BRCA1-deficient cancer cells exposed to multiple cisplatin doses, mimicking a clinical treatment regimen. This effect depends on increased expression and chromatin loading of PRIMPOL and is regulated by ATR activity. Electron microscopy and single-molecule DNA fiber analyses reveal that PRIMPOL rescues fork degradation by reinitiating DNA synthesis past DNA lesions. PRIMPOL repriming leads to accumulation of ssDNA gaps while suppressing fork reversal. We propose that cells adapt to repeated cisplatin doses by activating PRIMPOL repriming under conditions that would otherwise promote pathological reversed fork degradation. This effect is generalizable to other conditions of impaired fork reversal (e.g., SMARCAL1 loss or PARP inhibition) and suggests a new strategy to modulate cisplatin chemosensitivity by targeting the PRIMPOL pathway."	1
"32521280"	"ELKS1 Captures Rab6-Marked Vesicular Cargo in Presynaptic Nerve Terminals.Neurons face unique transport challenges. They need to deliver cargo over long axonal distances and to many presynaptic nerve terminals. Rab GTPases are master regulators of vesicular traffic, but essential presynaptic Rabs have not been identified. Here, we find that Rab6, a Golgi-derived GTPase for constitutive secretion, associates with mobile axonal cargo and localizes to nerve terminals. ELKS1 is a stationary presynaptic protein with Golgin homology that binds to Rab6. Knockout and rescue experiments for ELKS1 and Rab6 establish that ELKS1 captures Rab6 cargo. The ELKS1-Rab6-capturing mechanism can be transferred to mitochondria by mistargeting ELKS1 or Rab6 to them. We conclude that nerve terminals have repurposed mechanisms from constitutive exocytosis for their highly regulated secretion. By employing Golgin-like mechanisms with anchored ELKS extending its coiled-coils to capture Rab6 cargo, they have spatially separated cargo capture from fusion. ELKS complexes connect to active zones and may mediate vesicle progression toward release sites."	1
"32375027"	"Systematic Analysis of Targets of Pumilio-Mediated mRNA Decay Reveals that PUM1 Repression by DNA Damage Activates Translesion Synthesis.RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play a pivotal role in gene expression by modulating the stability of transcripts. However, the identification of degradation target mRNAs of RBPs remains difficult. By the combined analysis of transcriptome-wide mRNA stabilities and the binding of mRNAs to human Pumilio 1 (PUM1), we identify 48 mRNAs that both bind to PUM1 and exhibit PUM1-dependent degradation. Analysis of changes in the abundance of PUM1 and its degradation target mRNAs in RNA-seq data indicate that DNA-damaging agents negatively regulate PUM1-mediated mRNA decay. Cells exposed to cisplatin have reduced PUM1 abundance and increased PCNA and UBE2A mRNAs encoding proteins involved in DNA damage tolerance by translesion synthesis (TLS). Cells overexpressing PUM1 exhibit impaired DNA synthesis and TLS and increased sensitivity to the cytotoxic effect of cisplatin. Thus, our method identifies target mRNAs of PUM1-mediated decay and reveals that cells respond to DNA damage by inhibiting PUM1-mediated mRNA decay to activate TLS."	1
"32755576"	"Stromal Cell-Contact Dependent PI3K and APRIL Induced NF-κB Signaling Prevent Mitochondrial- and ER Stress Induced Death of Memory Plasma Cells.The persistence of long-lived memory plasma cells in the bone marrow depends on survival factors available in the bone marrow, which are provided in niches organized by stromal cells. Using an ex vivo system in which we supply the known survival signals, direct cell contact to stromal cells, and the soluble cytokine a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), we have elucidated the critical signaling pathways required for the survival of long-lived plasma cells. Integrin-mediated contact of bone marrow plasma cells with stromal cells activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway, leading to critical inactivation of Forkhead-Box-Protein O1/3 (FoxO1/3) and preventing the activation of mitochondrial stress-associated effector caspases 3 and 7. Accordingly, inhibition of PI3K signaling in vivo ablates bone marrow plasma cells. APRIL signaling, by the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway, blocks activation of the endoplasmic-reticulum-stress-associated initiator caspase 12. Thus, stromal-cell-contact-induced PI3K and APRIL-induced NF-κB signaling provide the necessary and complementary signals to maintain bone marrow memory plasma cells."	1
"32460013"	"MKRN2 Physically Interacts with GLE1 to Regulate mRNA Export and Zebrafish Retinal Development.The mammalian mRNA nuclear export process is thought to terminate at the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex through ribonucleoprotein remodeling. We conduct a stringent affinity-purification mass-spectrometry-based screen of the physical interactions of human RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligases. The resulting protein-interaction network reveals interactions between the RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase MKRN2 and GLE1, a DEAD-box helicase activator implicated in mRNA export termination. We assess MKRN2 epistasis with GLE1 in a zebrafish model. Morpholino-mediated knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9-based knockout of MKRN2 partially rescue retinal developmental defects seen upon GLE1 depletion, consistent with a functional association between GLE1 and MKRN2. Using ribonomic approaches, we show that MKRN2 binds selectively to the 3' UTR of a diverse subset of mRNAs and that nuclear export of MKRN2-associated mRNAs is enhanced upon knockdown of MKRN2. Taken together, we suggest that MKRN2 interacts with GLE1 to selectively regulate mRNA nuclear export and retinal development."	1
"31831627"	"Induction of AP-1 by YAP/TAZ contributes to cell proliferation and organ growth.Yes-associated protein (YAP) and its homolog transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) are key effectors of the Hippo pathway to control cell growth and organ size, of which dysregulation yields to tumorigenesis or hypertrophy. Upon activation, YAP/TAZ translocate into the nucleus and bind to TEAD transcription factors to promote transcriptional programs for proliferation or cell specification. Immediate early genes, represented by AP-1 complex, are rapidly induced and control later-phase transcriptional program to play key roles in tumorigenesis and organ maintenance. Here, we report that YAP/TAZ directly promote <i>FOS</i> transcription that in turn contributes to the biological function of YAP/TAZ. YAP/TAZ bind to the promoter region of <i>FOS</i> to stimulate its transcription. Deletion of YAP/TAZ blocks the induction of immediate early genes in response to mitogenic stimuli. <i>FOS</i> induction contributes to expression of YAP/TAZ downstream target genes. Genetic deletion or chemical inhibition of AP-1 suppresses growth of YAP-driven cancer cells, such as <i>Lats1/2</i>-deficient cancer cells as well as Gα<sub>q/11</sub> mutated uveal melanoma. Furthermore, AP-1 inhibition almost completely abrogates the hepatomegaly induced by YAP overexpression. Our findings reveal a feed-forward interplay between immediate early transcription of AP-1 and Hippo pathway function."	1
"32231311"	"Pro-neuronal activity of Myod1 due to promiscuous binding to neuronal genes.The on-target pioneer factors Ascl1 and Myod1 are sequence-related but induce two developmentally unrelated lineages-that is, neuronal and muscle identities, respectively. It is unclear how these two basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) factors mediate such fundamentally different outcomes. The chromatin binding of Ascl1 and Myod1 was surprisingly similar in fibroblasts, yet their transcriptional outputs were drastically different. We found that quantitative binding differences explained differential chromatin remodelling and gene activation. Although strong Ascl1 binding was exclusively associated with bHLH motifs, strong Myod1-binding sites were co-enriched with non-bHLH motifs, possibly explaining why Ascl1 is less context dependent. Finally, we observed that promiscuous binding of Myod1 to neuronal targets results in neuronal reprogramming when the muscle program is inhibited by Myt1l. Our findings suggest that chromatin access of on-target pioneer factors is primarily driven by the protein-DNA interaction, unlike ordinary context-dependent transcription factors, and that promiscuous transcription factor binding requires specific silencing mechanisms to ensure lineage fidelity."	0
"31668930"	"Structures of Neisseria meningitidis Cas9 Complexes in Catalytically Poised and Anti-CRISPR-Inhibited States.High-resolution Cas9 structures have yet to reveal catalytic conformations due to HNH nuclease domain positioning away from the cleavage site. Nme1Cas9 and Nme2Cas9 are compact nucleases for in vivo genome editing. Here, we report structures of meningococcal Cas9 homologs in complex with sgRNA, dsDNA, or the AcrIIC3 anti-CRISPR protein. DNA-bound structures represent an early step of target recognition, a later HNH pre-catalytic state, the HNH catalytic state, and a cleaved-target-DNA-bound state. In the HNH catalytic state of Nme1Cas9, the active site is seen poised at the scissile phosphodiester linkage of the target strand, providing a high-resolution view of the active conformation. The HNH active conformation activates the RuvC domain. Our structures explain how Nme1Cas9 and Nme2Cas9 read distinct PAM sequences and how AcrIIC3 inhibits Nme1Cas9 activity. These structures provide insights into Cas9 domain rearrangements, guide-target engagement, cleavage mechanism, and anti-CRISPR inhibition, facilitating the optimization of these genome-editing platforms."	0
"32200796"	"ATACing DNA Methylation during Differentiation.Distal regulatory elements control gene expression during differentiation. In this issue of Molecular Cell, Barnett et al. (2020) develop a new technology, called ATAC-Me, and discover that removal of DNA methylation is not a pre-requisite for the creation of accessible chromatin at active gene regulatory elements during cellular differentiation."	0
"30598363"	"RIPK1 and Caspase-8 Ensure Chromosome Stability Independently of Their Role in Cell Death and Inflammation.Receptor-interacting protein kinase (RIPK) 1 functions as a key mediator of tissue homeostasis via formation of Caspase-8 activating ripoptosome complexes, positively and negatively regulating apoptosis, necroptosis, and inflammation. Here, we report an unanticipated cell-death- and inflammation-independent function of RIPK1 and Caspase-8, promoting faithful chromosome alignment in mitosis and thereby ensuring genome stability. We find that ripoptosome complexes progressively form as cells enter mitosis, peaking at metaphase and disassembling as cells exit mitosis. Genetic deletion and mitosis-specific inhibition of Ripk1 or Caspase-8 results in chromosome alignment defects independently of MLKL. We found that Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) is recruited into mitotic ripoptosomes, where PLK1's activity is controlled via RIPK1-dependent recruitment and Caspase-8-mediated cleavage. A fine balance of ripoptosome assembly is required as deregulated ripoptosome activity modulates PLK1-dependent phosphorylation of downstream effectors, such as BUBR1. Our data suggest that ripoptosome-mediated regulation of PLK1 contributes to faithful chromosome segregation during mitosis."	1
"32783942"	"A Three-Way Combinatorial CRISPR Screen for Analyzing Interactions among Druggable Targets.We present a CRISPR-based multi-gene knockout screening system and toolkits for extensible assembly of barcoded high-order combinatorial guide RNA libraries en masse. We apply this system for systematically identifying not only pairwise but also three-way synergistic therapeutic target combinations and successfully validate double- and triple-combination regimens for suppression of cancer cell growth and protection against Parkinson's disease-associated toxicity. This system overcomes the practical challenges of experimenting on a large number of high-order genetic and drug combinations and can be applied to uncover the rare synergistic interactions between druggable targets."	0
"32571875"	"PRL3 pseudophosphatase activity is necessary and sufficient to promote metastatic growth.Phosphatases of regenerating liver (PRLs) are markers of cancer and promote tumor growth. They have been implicated in a variety of biochemical pathways but the physiologically relevant target of phosphatase activity has eluded 20 years of investigation. Here, we show that PRL3 catalytic activity is not required in a mouse model of metastasis. PRL3 binds and inhibits CNNM4, a membrane protein associated with magnesium transport. Analysis of PRL3 mutants specifically defective in either CNNM-binding or phosphatase activity demonstrate that CNNM binding is necessary and sufficient to promote tumor metastasis. As PRLs do have phosphatase activity, they are in fact <i>pseudo</i>-pseudophosphatases. Phosphatase activity leads to formation of phosphocysteine, which blocks CNNM binding and may play a regulatory role. We show levels of PRL cysteine phosphorylation vary in response to culture conditions and in different tissues. Examination of related protein phosphatases shows the stability of phosphocysteine is a unique and evolutionarily conserved property of PRLs. The demonstration that PRL3 functions as a pseudophosphatase has important ramifications for the design of PRL inhibitors for cancer."	1
"31000437"	"Regulation of UCP1 and Mitochondrial Metabolism in Brown Adipose Tissue by Reversible Succinylation.Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is rich in mitochondria and plays important roles in energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. We find that levels of mitochondrial protein succinylation and malonylation are high in BAT and subject to physiological and genetic regulation. BAT-specific deletion of Sirt5, a mitochondrial desuccinylase and demalonylase, results in dramatic increases in global protein succinylation and malonylation. Mass spectrometry-based quantification of succinylation reveals that Sirt5 regulates the key thermogenic protein in BAT, UCP1. Mutation of the two succinylated lysines in UCP1 to acyl-mimetic glutamine and glutamic acid significantly decreases its stability and activity. The reduced function of UCP1 and other proteins in Sirt5KO BAT results in impaired mitochondria respiration, defective mitophagy, and metabolic inflexibility. Thus, succinylation of UCP1 and other mitochondrial proteins plays an important role in BAT and in regulation of energy homeostasis."	1
"32130897"	"Interplay of Staphylococcal and Host Proteases Promotes Skin Barrier Disruption in Netherton Syndrome.Netherton syndrome (NS) is a monogenic skin disease resulting from loss of function of lymphoepithelial Kazal-type-related protease inhibitor (LEKTI-1). In this study we examine if bacteria residing on the skin are influenced by the loss of LEKTI-1 and if interaction between this human gene and resident bacteria contributes to skin disease. Shotgun sequencing of the skin microbiome demonstrates that lesional skin of NS subjects is dominated by Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) and Staphylococcus epidermidis (S. epidermidis). Isolates of either species from NS subjects are able to induce skin inflammation and barrier damage on mice. These microbes promote skin inflammation in the setting of LEKTI-1 deficiency due to excess proteolytic activity promoted by S. aureus phenol-soluble modulin α as well as increased bacterial proteases staphopain A and B from S. aureus or EcpA from S. epidermidis. These findings demonstrate the critical need for maintaining homeostasis of host and microbial proteases to prevent a human skin disease."	0
"30850331"	"Diverse Mechanisms of CRISPR-Cas9 Inhibition by Type IIC Anti-CRISPR Proteins.Anti-CRISPR proteins (Acrs) targeting CRISPR-Cas9 systems represent natural ""off switches"" for Cas9-based applications. Recently, AcrIIC1, AcrIIC2, and AcrIIC3 proteins were found to inhibit Neisseria meningitidis Cas9 (NmeCas9) activity in bacterial and human cells. Here we report biochemical and structural data that suggest molecular mechanisms of AcrIIC2- and AcrIIC3-mediated Cas9 inhibition. AcrIIC2 dimer interacts with the bridge helix of Cas9, interferes with RNA binding, and prevents DNA loading into Cas9. AcrIIC3 blocks the DNA loading step through binding to a non-conserved surface of the HNH domain of Cas9. AcrIIC3 also forms additional interactions with the REC lobe of Cas9 and induces the dimerization of the AcrIIC3-Cas9 complex. While AcrIIC2 targets Cas9 orthologs from different subtypes, albeit with different efficiency, AcrIIC3 specifically inhibits NmeCas9. Structure-guided changes in NmeCas9 orthologs convert them into anti-CRISPR-sensitive proteins. Our studies provide insights into anti-CRISPR-mediated suppression mechanisms and guidelines for designing regulatory tools in Cas9-based applications."	0
"32679077"	"Acetylation-Dependent Deubiquitinase OTUD3 Controls MAVS Activation in Innate Antiviral Immunity.Accurate regulation of innate immunity is necessary for the host to efficiently respond to invading pathogens and avoid excessive harmful immune pathology. Here we identified OTUD3 as an acetylation-dependent deubiquitinase that restricts innate antiviral immune signaling. OTUD3 deficiency in mice results in enhanced innate immunity, a diminished viral load, and morbidity. OTUD3 directly hydrolyzes lysine 63 (Lys63)-linked polyubiquitination of MAVS and thus shuts off innate antiviral immune response. Notably, the catalytic activity of OTUD3 relies on acetylation of its Lys129 residue. In response to virus infection, the acetylated Lys129 is removed by SIRT1, which promptly inactivates OTUD3 and thus allows timely induction of innate antiviral immunity. Importantly, acetyl-OTUD3 levels are inversely correlated with IFN-β expression in influenza patients. These findings establish OTUD3 as a repressor of MAVS and uncover a previously unknown regulatory mechanism by which the catalytic activity of OTUD3 is tightly controlled to ensure timely activation of antiviral defense."	1
"31606273"	"Distinct Binding Preferences between Ras and Raf Family Members and the Impact on Oncogenic Ras Signaling.The Ras GTPases are frequently mutated in human cancer, and, although the Raf kinases are essential effectors of Ras signaling, the tumorigenic properties of specific Ras-Raf complexes are not well characterized. Here, we examine the ability of individual Ras and Raf proteins to interact in live cells using bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) technology. We find that C-Raf binds all mutant Ras proteins with high affinity, whereas B-Raf exhibits a striking preference for mutant K-Ras. This selectivity is mediated by the acidic, N-terminal segment of B-Raf and requires the K-Ras polybasic region for high-affinity binding. In addition, we find that C-Raf is critical for mutant H-Ras-driven signaling and that events stabilizing B-Raf/C-Raf dimerization, such as Raf inhibitor treatment or certain B-Raf mutations, can allow mutant H-Ras to engage B-Raf with increased affinity to promote tumorigenesis, thus revealing a previously unappreciated role for C-Raf in potentiating B-Raf function."	1
"31735643"	"Dynamic Regulation of ME1 Phosphorylation and Acetylation Affects Lipid Metabolism and Colorectal Tumorigenesis.PGAM5 is a mitochondrial serine/threonine phosphatase that regulates multiple metabolic pathways and contributes to tumorigenesis in a poorly understood manner. We show here that PGAM5 inhibition attenuates lipid metabolism and colorectal tumorigenesis in mice. PGAM5-mediated dephosphorylation of malic enzyme 1 (ME1) at S336 allows increased ACAT1-mediated K337 acetylation, leading to ME1 dimerization and activation, both of which are reversed by NEK1 kinase-mediated S336 phosphorylation. SIRT6 deacetylase antagonizes ACAT1 function in a manner that involves mutually exclusive ME1 S336 phosphorylation and K337 acetylation. ME1 also promotes nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) production, lipogenesis, and colorectal cancers in which ME1 transcripts are upregulated and ME1 protein is hypophosphorylated at S336 and hyperacetylated at K337. PGAM5 and ME1 upregulation occur via direct transcriptional activation mediated by β-catenin/TCF1. Thus, the balance between PGAM5-mediated dephosphorylation of ME1 S336 and ACAT1-mediated acetylation of K337 strongly influences NADPH generation, lipid metabolism, and the susceptibility to colorectal tumorigenesis."	1
"30472190"	"Promoter Distortion and Opening in the RNA Polymerase II Cleft.Transcription initiation requires opening of promoter DNA in the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) pre-initiation complex (PIC), but it remains unclear how this is achieved. Here we report the cryo-electron microscopic (cryo-EM) structure of a yeast PIC that contains underwound, distorted promoter DNA in the closed Pol II cleft. The DNA duplex axis is offset at the upstream edge of the initially melted DNA region (IMR) where DNA opening begins. Unstable IMRs are found in a subset of yeast promoters that we show can still initiate transcription after depletion of the transcription factor (TF) IIH (TFIIH) translocase Ssl2 (XPB in human) from the nucleus in vivo. PIC-induced DNA distortions may thus prime the IMR for melting and may explain how unstable IMRs that are predicted in promoters of Pol I and Pol III can open spontaneously. These results suggest that DNA distortion in the polymerase cleft is a general mechanism that contributes to promoter opening."	0
"31626748"	"Filament-like Assemblies of Intracellular Nucleic Acid Sensors: Commonalities and Differences.Self versus non-self discrimination by innate immune sensors is critical for mounting effective immune responses against pathogens while avoiding harmful auto-inflammatory reactions against the host. Foreign DNA and RNA sensors must discriminate between self versus non-self nucleic acids, despite their shared building blocks and similar physicochemical properties. Recent structural and biochemical studies suggest that multiple steps of filament-like assembly are required for the functions of several nucleic acid sensors. Here, we discuss ligand discrimination and oligomerization of RIG-I-like receptors, AIM2-like receptors, and cGAS. We discuss how filament-like assembly allows for robust and accurate discrimination of self versus non-self nucleic acids and how these assemblies enable sensing of multiple distinct features in foreign nucleic acids, including structure, length, and modifications. We also discuss how individual receptors differ in their assembly and disassembly mechanisms and how these differences contribute to the diversity in nucleic acid specificity and pathogen detection strategies."	0
"32187559"	"Identification of ALPPL2 as a Naive Pluripotent State-Specific Surface Protein Essential for Human Naive Pluripotency Regulation.Human naive pluripotent stem cells established from the epiblasts of preimplantation blastocysts provide a useful model for mechanistic studies of pluripotency regulation and lineage differentiation. Important advances have been made to optimize culture conditions and define molecular criteria for naive pluripotency. However, the identity of naive-specific surface markers and the underlying molecular mechanism of naive pluripotency regulation remain poorly understood. Here, we identify alkaline phosphatase placental-like 2 (ALPPL2) as a prominent naive-specific surface marker by systematic proteomic and transcriptomic analyses. Furthermore, we demonstrate that ALPPL2 is essential for both the establishment and maintenance of naive pluripotency. Moreover, we show that ALPPL2 can interact with the RNA-binding protein IGF2BP1 to stabilize the mRNA levels of the naive pluripotency transcription factors TFCP2L1 and STAT3 to regulate naive pluripotency. Overall, our study identifies a functional surface marker for human naive pluripotency, providing a powerful tool for human-naive-pluripotency-related mechanistic studies."	1
"32641496"	"TRESK and TREK-2 two-pore-domain potassium channel subunits form functional heterodimers in primary somatosensory neurons.Two-pore-domain potassium channels (K<sub>2P</sub>) are the major determinants of the background potassium conductance. They play a crucial role in setting the resting membrane potential and regulating cellular excitability. These channels form homodimers; however, a few examples of heterodimerization have also been reported. The K<sub>2P</sub> channel subunits TRESK and TREK-2 provide the predominant background potassium current in the primary sensory neurons of the dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia. A recent study has shown that a TRESK mutation causes migraine because it leads to the formation of a dominant negative truncated TRESK fragment. Surprisingly, this fragment can also interact with TREK-2. In this study, we determined the biophysical and pharmacological properties of the TRESK/TREK-2 heterodimer using a covalently linked TRESK/TREK-2 construct to ensure the assembly of the different subunits. The tandem channel has an intermediate single-channel conductance compared with the TRESK and TREK-2 homodimers. Similar conductance values were recorded when TRESK and TREK-2 were coexpressed, demonstrating that the two subunits can spontaneously form functional heterodimers. The TRESK component confers calcineurin-dependent regulation to the heterodimer and gives rise to a pharmacological profile similar to the TRESK homodimer, whereas the presence of the TREK-2 subunit renders the channel sensitive to the selective TREK-2 activator T2A3. In trigeminal primary sensory neurons, we detected single-channel activity with biophysical and pharmacological properties similar to the TRESK/TREK-2 tandem, indicating that WT TRESK and TREK-2 subunits coassemble to form functional heterodimeric channels also in native cells."	0
"32049018"	"Plasmodium Condensin Core Subunits SMC2/SMC4 Mediate Atypical Mitosis and Are Essential for Parasite Proliferation and Transmission.Condensin is a multi-subunit protein complex regulating chromosome condensation and segregation during cell division. In Plasmodium spp., the causative agent of malaria, cell division is atypical and the role of condensin is unclear. Here we examine the role of SMC2 and SMC4, the core subunits of condensin, during endomitosis in schizogony and endoreduplication in male gametogenesis. During early schizogony, SMC2/SMC4 localize to a distinct focus, identified as the centromeres by NDC80 fluorescence and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses, but do not form condensin I or II complexes. In mature schizonts and during male gametogenesis, there is a diffuse SMC2/SMC4 distribution on chromosomes and in the nucleus, and both condensin I and condensin II complexes form at these stages. Knockdown of smc2 and smc4 gene expression reveals essential roles in parasite proliferation and transmission. The condensin core subunits (SMC2/SMC4) form different complexes and may have distinct functions at various stages of the parasite life cycle."	0
"31029542"	"Functional Landscape of PCGF Proteins Reveals Both RING1A/B-Dependent-and RING1A/B-Independent-Specific Activities.Polycomb repressive complexes 1 and 2 (PRC1 and PRC2) control cell identity by establishing facultative heterochromatin repressive domains at common sets of target genes. PRC1, which deposits H2Aub1 through the E3 ligases RING1A/B, forms six biochemically distinct subcomplexes depending on the assembled PCGF protein (PCGF1-PCGF6); however, it is yet unclear whether these subcomplexes have also specific activities. Here we show that PCGF1 and PCGF2 largely compensate for each other, while other PCGF proteins have high levels of specificity for distinct target genes. PCGF2 associates with transcription repression, whereas PCGF3 and PCGF6 associate with actively transcribed genes. Notably, PCGF3 and PCGF6 complexes can assemble and be recruited to several active sites independently of RING1A/B activity (therefore, of PRC1). For chromatin recruitment, the PCGF6 complex requires the combinatorial activities of its MGA-MAX and E2F6-DP1 subunits, while PCGF3 requires an interaction with the USF1 DNA binding transcription factor."	0
"32668251"	"High Frequency of Shared Clonotypes in Human T Cell Receptor Repertoires.The collection of T cell receptors (TCRs) generated by somatic recombination is large but unknown. We generate large TCR repertoire datasets as a resource to facilitate detailed studies of the role of TCR clonotypes and repertoires in health and disease. We estimate the size of individual human recombined and expressed TCRs by sequence analysis and determine the extent of sharing between individual repertoires. Our experiments reveal that each blood sample contains between 5 million and 21 million TCR clonotypes. Three individuals share 8% of TCRβ- or 11% of TCRα-chain clonotypes. Sorting by T cell phenotypes in four individuals shows that 5% of naive CD4+ and 3.5% of naive CD8+ subsets share their TCRβ clonotypes, whereas memory CD4+ and CD8+ subsets share 2.3% and 0.4% of their clonotypes, respectively. We identify the sequences of these shared TCR clonotypes that are of interest for studies of human T cell biology."	0
"32579917"	"Local miRNA-Dependent Translational Control of GABA<sub>A</sub>R Synthesis during Inhibitory Long-Term Potentiation.Molecular mechanisms underlying plasticity at brain inhibitory synapses remain poorly characterized. Increased postsynaptic clustering of GABA<sub>A</sub> receptors (GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs) rapidly strengthens inhibition during inhibitory long-term potentiation (iLTP). However, it is unclear how synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>R clustering is maintained to sustain iLTP. Here, we identify a role for miR376c in regulating the translation of mRNAs encoding the synaptic α1 and γ2 GABA<sub>A</sub>R subunits, GABRA1 and GABRG2, respectively. Following iLTP induction, transcriptional repression of miR376c is induced through a calcineurin-NFAT-HDAC signaling pathway and promotes increased translation and clustering of synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs. This pathway is essential for the long-term expression of iLTP and is blocked by miR376c overexpression, specifically impairing inhibitory synaptic strength. Finally, we show that local de novo synthesis of synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs occurs exclusively in dendrites and in a miR376c-dependent manner following iLTP. Together, this work describes a local post-transcriptional mechanism that regulates inhibitory synaptic plasticity via miRNA control of dendritic protein synthesis."	1
"31810759"	"c-di-GMP Arms an Anti-σ to Control Progression of Multicellular Differentiation in Streptomyces.Streptomyces are our primary source of antibiotics, produced concomitantly with the transition from vegetative growth to sporulation in a complex developmental life cycle. We previously showed that the signaling molecule c-di-GMP binds BldD, a master repressor, to control initiation of development. Here we demonstrate that c-di-GMP also intervenes later in development to control differentiation of the reproductive hyphae into spores by arming a novel anti-σ (RsiG) to bind and sequester a sporulation-specific σ factor (σ<sup>WhiG</sup>). We present the structure of the RsiG-(c-di-GMP)<sub>2</sub>-σ<sup>WhiG</sup> complex, revealing an unusual, partially intercalated c-di-GMP dimer bound at the RsiG-σ<sup>WhiG</sup> interface. RsiG binds c-di-GMP in the absence of σ<sup>WhiG</sup>, employing a novel E(X)<sub>3</sub>S(X)<sub>2</sub>R(X)<sub>3</sub>Q(X)<sub>3</sub>D motif repeated on each helix of a coiled coil. Further studies demonstrate that c-di-GMP is essential for RsiG to inhibit σ<sup>WhiG</sup>. These findings reveal a newly described control mechanism for σ-anti-σ complex formation and establish c-di-GMP as the central integrator of Streptomyces development."	0
"32101746"	"Mechanism of Crosstalk between the LSD1 Demethylase and HDAC1 Deacetylase in the CoREST Complex.The transcriptional corepressor complex CoREST is one of seven histone deacetylase complexes that regulate the genome through controlling chromatin acetylation. The CoREST complex is unique in containing both histone demethylase and deacetylase enzymes, LSD1 and HDAC1, held together by the RCOR1 scaffold protein. To date, it has been assumed that the enzymes function independently within the complex. Now, we report the assembly of the ternary complex. Using both structural and functional studies, we show that the activity of the two enzymes is closely coupled and that the complex can exist in at least two distinct states with different kinetics. Electron microscopy of the complex reveals a bi-lobed structure with LSD1 and HDAC1 enzymes at opposite ends of the complex. The structure of CoREST in complex with a nucleosome reveals a mode of chromatin engagement that contrasts with previous models."	0
"31968249"	"The Mitochondrial Protein MAVS Stabilizes p53 to Suppress Tumorigenesis.Recent reports have shown the critical role of the mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS) protein in virus-induced apoptosis, but the involvement of MAVS in tumorigenesis is still poorly understood. Herein, we report that MAVS is a key regulator of p53 activation and is critical for protecting against tumorigenesis. We find that MAVS promotes p53-dependent cell death in response to DNA damage. MAVS interacts with p53 and mediates p53 mitochondrial recruitment under genotoxic stress. Mechanistically, MAVS inhibits p53 ubiquitination by blocking the formation of the p53-murine double-minute 2 (MDM2) complex, leading to the stabilization of p53. Notably, compared with their wild-type littermates, MAVS knockout mice display decreased resistance to azoxymethane (AOM) or AOM/dextran sulfate sodium salt (DSS)-induced colon cancer. MAVS expression is significantly downregulated in human colon cancer tissues. These results unveil roles for MAVS in DNA damage response and tumor suppression."	1
"32359443"	"BRCA1 Mutational Complementation Induces Synthetic Viability.BRCA1 promotes the DNA end resection and RAD51 loading steps of homologous recombination (HR). Whether these functions can be uncoupled, and whether mutant proteins retaining partial activity can complement one another, is unclear and could affect the severity of BRCA1-associated Fanconi anemia (FA). Here we generated a Brca1<sup>CC</sup> mouse with a coiled-coil (CC) domain deletion. Brca1<sup>CC/CC</sup> mice are born at low frequencies, and post-natal mice have FA-like abnormalities, including bone marrow failure. Intercrossing with Brca1<sup>Δ11</sup>, which is homozygous lethal, generated Brca1<sup>CC/Δ11</sup> mice at Mendelian frequencies that were indistinguishable from Brca1<sup>+/+</sup> mice. Brca1<sup>CC</sup> and Brca1<sup>Δ11</sup> proteins were individually responsible for counteracting 53BP1-RIF1-Shieldin activity and promoting RAD51 loading, respectively. Thus, Brca1<sup>CC</sup> and Brca1<sup>Δ11</sup> alleles represent separation-of-function mutations that combine to provide a level of HR sufficient for normal development and hematopoiesis. Because BRCA1 activities can be genetically separated, compound heterozygosity for functional complementary mutations may protect individuals from FA."	0
"32763910"	"miR760 regulates ATXN1 levels via interaction with its 5' untranslated region.Identifying modifiers of dosage-sensitive genes involved in neurodegenerative disorders is imperative to discover novel genetic risk factors and potential therapeutic entry points. In this study, we focus on Ataxin-1 (<i>ATXN1</i>), a dosage-sensitive gene involved in the neurodegenerative disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). While the precise maintenance of ATXN1 levels is essential to prevent disease, the mechanisms that regulate <i>ATXN1</i> expression remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that <i>ATXN1</i>'s unusually long 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) negatively regulates its expression via posttranscriptional mechanisms. Based on recent reports that microRNAs (miRNAs) can interact with both 3' and 5' UTRs to regulate their target genes, we identify miR760 as a negative regulator that binds to a conserved site in <i>ATXN1</i>'s 5' UTR to induce RNA degradation and translational inhibition. We found that delivery of Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-expressing miR760 in the cerebellum reduces ATXN1 levels in vivo and mitigates motor coordination deficits in a mouse model of SCA1. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of ATXN1 levels, present additional evidence for miRNA-mediated gene regulation via 5' UTR binding, and raise the possibility that noncoding mutations in the <i>ATXN1</i> locus may act as risk factors for yet to be discovered progressive ataxias."	1
"30853400"	"FIP200 Claw Domain Binding to p62 Promotes Autophagosome Formation at Ubiquitin Condensates.The autophagy cargo receptor p62 facilitates the condensation of misfolded, ubiquitin-positive proteins and their degradation by autophagy, but the molecular mechanism of p62 signaling to the core autophagy machinery is unclear. Here, we show that disordered residues 326-380 of p62 directly interact with the C-terminal region (CTR) of FIP200. Crystal structure determination shows that the FIP200 CTR contains a dimeric globular domain that we designated the ""Claw"" for its shape. The interaction of p62 with FIP200 is mediated by a positively charged pocket in the Claw, enhanced by p62 phosphorylation, mutually exclusive with the binding of p62 to LC3B, and it promotes degradation of ubiquitinated cargo by autophagy. Furthermore, the recruitment of the FIP200 CTR slows the phase separation of ubiquitinated proteins by p62 in a reconstituted system. Our data provide the molecular basis for a crosstalk between cargo condensation and autophagosome formation."	1
"32610117"	"The Leucine-Rich Repeat Region of CARMIL1 Regulates IL-1-Mediated ERK Activation, MMP Expression, and Collagen Degradation.CARMILs are large, multidomain, membrane-associated proteins that regulate actin assembly and Rho-family GTPases, but their role in inflammatory signaling is not defined. Tandem mass tag mass spectrometry indicated that, in fibroblasts, CARMIL1 associates with interleukin (IL)-1 signaling molecules. Immunoprecipitation of cells transfected with CARMIL1 mutants showed that the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) region of CARMIL1 associates with IL-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK). Knockout of CARMIL1 by CRISPR-Cas9 reduced IL-1-induced ERK activation by 72% and MMP3 expression by 40%. Compared with CARMIL1 wild-type (WT), cells expressing mutant CARMIL1 lacking its LRR domain exhibited 45% lower ERK activation and 40% lower MMP3 expression. In fibroblasts transduced with a cell-permeable, TAT CARMIL1 peptide that competed with IL-1R1 and IRAK binding to the LRR of CARMIL1, collagen degradation was reduced by 43%. As the LRR of CARMIL1 evidently regulates IL-1 signaling, CARMIL1 could become a target for anti-inflammatory drug development."	1
"32460025"	"The Drosophila Ortholog of Mammalian Transcription Factor Sox9 Regulates Intestinal Homeostasis and Regeneration at an Appropriate Level.Balanced stem cell self-renewal and differentiation is essential for maintaining tissue homeostasis, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we identified the transcription factor SRY-related HMG-box (Sox) 100B, which is orthologous to mammalian Sox8/9/10, as a common target and central mediator of the EGFR/Ras and JAK/STAT signaling pathways that coordinates intestinal stem cell (ISC) proliferation and differentiation during both normal epithelial homeostasis and stress-induced intestinal repair in Drosophila. The two stress-responsive pathways directly regulate Sox100B transcription via two separate enhancers. Interestingly, an appropriate level of Sox100B is critical for its function, as its depletion inhibits ISC proliferation via cell cycle arrest, while its overexpression also inhibits ISC proliferation by directly suppressing EGFR expression and additionally promotes ISC differentiation by activating a differentiation-promoting regulatory circuitry composed of Sox100B, Sox21a, and Pdm1. Thus, our study reveals a Sox family transcription factor that functions as a stress-responsive signaling nexus that ultimately controls tissue homeostasis and regeneration."	1
"32531202"	"Tuning Transcription Factor Availability through Acetylation-Mediated Genomic Redistribution.It is widely assumed that decreasing transcription factor DNA-binding affinity reduces transcription initiation by diminishing occupancy of sequence-specific regulatory elements. However, in vivo transcription factors find their binding sites while confronted with a large excess of low-affinity degenerate motifs. Here, using the melanoma lineage survival oncogene MITF as a model, we show that low-affinity binding sites act as a competitive reservoir in vivo from which transcription factors are released by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-stimulated acetylation to promote increased occupancy of their regulatory elements. Consequently, a low-DNA-binding-affinity acetylation-mimetic MITF mutation supports melanocyte development and drives tumorigenesis, whereas a high-affinity non-acetylatable mutant does not. The results reveal a paradoxical acetylation-mediated molecular clutch that tunes transcription factor availability via genome-wide redistribution and couples BRAF to tumorigenesis. Our results further suggest that p300/CREB-binding protein-mediated transcription factor acetylation may represent a common mechanism to control transcription factor availability."	0
"32348751"	"Pbrm1 Steers Mesenchymal Stromal Cell Osteolineage Differentiation by Integrating PBAF-Dependent Chromatin Remodeling and BMP/TGF-β Signaling.Bone morphogenic protein (BMP)/transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling determines mesenchymal-stromal-cell (MSC) osteolineage commitment and tissue identity. However, molecular integration of developmental signaling with MSC-intrinsic chromatin regulation remains incompletely understood. SWI/SNF-(BAF) is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler implicated in multi-cellular development. We show that BMPs and long-term osteogenic signals in MSCs selectively induce expression of polybromo BAF (PBAF) components Pbrm1, Arid2, and Brd7. Loss of Pbrm1/Arid2/Brd7 profoundly impairs osteolineage gene expression and osteogenesis without compromising adipogenesis. Pbrm1 loss attenuates MSC in vivo ossification. Mechanistically, Pbrm1/PBAF deficiency impairs Smad1/5/8 activation through locus-specific epi-genomic remodeling, involving Pbrm1 bromodomains, along with transcriptional downregulation of Bmpr/TgfβrII affecting BMP-early-responsive gene expression. Gain of function of BmprIβ, TgfβrII in PBAF-deficient MSCs partly restores Smad1/5/8 activation and osteogenesis. Pbrm1 loss further affects hematopoietic stem and progenitor activity through non-cell-autonomous regulation of microenvironment and niche-factor expression. Together, these findings reveal a link illustrating epi-genomic feedforward control of BMP/TGF-β signaling to transcriptional and cellular plasticity in the mesenchymal microenvironment and account for stromal-SWI/SNF in hematopoiesis."	1
"31980388"	"A Cancer-Specific Ubiquitin Ligase Drives mRNA Alternative Polyadenylation by Ubiquitinating the mRNA 3' End Processing Complex.Alternative polyadenylation (APA) contributes to transcriptome complexity by generating mRNA isoforms with varying 3' UTR lengths. APA leading to 3' UTR shortening (3' US) is a common feature of most cancer cells; however, the molecular mechanisms are not understood. Here, we describe a widespread mechanism promoting 3' US in cancer through ubiquitination of the mRNA 3' end processing complex protein, PCF11, by the cancer-specific MAGE-A11-HUWE1 ubiquitin ligase. MAGE-A11 is normally expressed only in the male germline but is frequently re-activated in cancers. MAGE-A11 is necessary for cancer cell viability and is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis. Screening for targets of MAGE-A11 revealed that it ubiquitinates PCF11, resulting in loss of CFIm25 from the mRNA 3' end processing complex. This leads to APA of many transcripts affecting core oncogenic and tumor suppressors, including cyclin D2 and PTEN. These findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms driving APA in cancer and suggest therapeutic strategies."	1
"32937142"	"Innate Lymphoid Cell Activation and Sustained Depletion in Blood and Tissue of Children Infected with HIV from Birth Despite Antiretroviral Therapy.Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are important for response to infection and for immune development in early life. HIV infection in adults depletes circulating ILCs, but the impact on children infected from birth remains unknown. We study vertically HIV-infected children from birth to adulthood and find severe and persistent depletion of all circulating ILCs that, unlike CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells, are not restored by long-term antiretroviral therapy unless initiated at birth. Remaining ILCs upregulate genes associated with cellular activation and metabolic perturbation. Unlike HIV-infected adults, ILCs are also profoundly depleted in tonsils of vertically infected children. Transcriptional profiling of remaining ILCs reveals ongoing cell-type-specific activity despite antiretroviral therapy. Collectively, these data suggest an important and ongoing role for ILCs in lymphoid tissue of HIV-infected children from birth, where persistent depletion and sustained transcriptional activity are likely to have long-term immune consequences that merit further investigation."	0
"31968253"	"A Mouse Homolog of a Human TP53 Germline Mutation Reveals a Lipolytic Activity of p53.The physiological effects of the many germline mutations of TP53, encoding the tumor suppressor protein p53, are poorly understood. Here we report generating a p53 R178C knockin mouse modeling the human TP53 R181C mutation, which is notable for its prevalence and prior molecular characterization. Consistent with its weak cancer penetrance in humans, homozygous p53<sup>178C/C</sup> mice show a modest increase in tumorigenesis but, surprisingly, are lean with decreased body fat content. They display evidence of increased lipolysis and upregulation of fatty acid metabolism in their inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT). Gene expression and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses show that the mutant p53 bound and transactivated Beta-3-Adrenergic Receptor (ADRB3), a gene that is known to promote lipolysis and is associated with obesity. This study reveals that a germline mutation of p53 can affect fat metabolism, which has been implicated in cancer development."	0
"32348768"	"Pathogenic Infection in Male Mice Changes Sperm Small RNA Profiles and Transgenerationally Alters Offspring Behavior.Germline epigenetic factors influence transgenerational inheritance of behavioral traits upon changes in experience and environment. Immune activation due to infection can also modulate brain function, but whether this experience can be passed down to offspring remains unknown. Here, we show that infection of the male lineage with the common human parasite Toxoplasma results in transgenerational behavioral changes in offspring in a sex-dependent manner. Small RNA sequencing of sperm reveals significant transcriptional differences of infected animals compared to controls. Zygote microinjection of total small RNA from sperm of infected mice partially recapitulates the behavioral phenotype of naturally born offspring, suggesting an epigenetic mechanism of behavioral inheritance in the first generation. Our results demonstrate that sperm epigenetic factors can contribute to intergenerational inheritance of behavioral changes after pathogenic infection, which could have major public health implications."	0
"31398321"	"REV1-POL ζ Inhibition and Cancer Therapy.In a recent issue of Cell, Wojtaszek et al. (2019) reported a small-molecule inhibitor of mutagenic translesion DNA synthesis, which targets the interaction between REV1 and REV7, sensitizes cancer cells to cisplatin in vitro and in vivo, and reduces mutagenesis."	0
"31492635"	"PTEN Suppresses Glycolysis by Dephosphorylating and Inhibiting Autophosphorylated PGK1.The PTEN tumor suppressor is frequently mutated or deleted in cancer and regulates glucose metabolism through the PI3K-AKT pathway. However, whether PTEN directly regulates glycolysis in tumor cells is unclear. We demonstrate here that PTEN directly interacts with phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1). PGK1 functions not only as a glycolytic enzyme but also as a protein kinase intermolecularly autophosphorylating itself at Y324 for activation. The protein phosphatase activity of PTEN dephosphorylates and inhibits autophosphorylated PGK1, thereby inhibiting glycolysis, ATP production, and brain tumor cell proliferation. In addition, knockin expression of a PGK1 Y324F mutant inhibits brain tumor formation. Analyses of human glioblastoma specimens reveals that PGK1 Y324 phosphorylation levels inversely correlate with PTEN expression status and are positively associated with poor prognosis in glioblastoma patients. This work highlights the instrumental role of PGK1 autophosphorylation in its activation and PTEN protein phosphatase activity in governing glycolysis and tumorigenesis."	1
"32268090"	"TBK1 and IKKε Act Redundantly to Mediate STING-Induced NF-κB Responses in Myeloid Cells.Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) is a critical component of host innate immune defense but can contribute to chronic autoimmune or autoinflammatory disease. Once activated, the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-adenosine monophosphate (AMP) (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS)-STING pathway induces both type I interferon (IFN) expression and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-mediated cytokine production. Currently, these two signaling arms are thought to be mediated by a single upstream kinase, TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). Here, using genetic and pharmacological approaches, we show that TBK1 alone is dispensable for STING-induced NF-κB responses in human and mouse immune cells, as well as in vivo. We further demonstrate that TBK1 acts redundantly with IκB kinase ε (IKKε) to drive NF-κB upon STING activation. Interestingly, we show that activation of IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) is highly dependent on TBK1 kinase activity, whereas NF-κB is significantly less sensitive to TBK1/IKKε kinase inhibition. Our work redefines signaling events downstream of cGAS-STING. Our findings further suggest that cGAS-STING will need to be targeted directly to effectively ameliorate the inflammation underpinning disorders associated with STING hyperactivity."	1
"32451439"	"ROCK-mediated selective activation of PERK signalling causes fibroblast reprogramming and tumour progression through a CRELD2-dependent mechanism.It is well accepted that cancers co-opt the microenvironment for their growth. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie cancer-microenvironment interactions are still poorly defined. Here, we show that Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) in the mammary tumour epithelium selectively actuates protein-kinase-R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), causing the recruitment and persistent education of tumour-promoting cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which are part of the cancer microenvironment. An analysis of tumours from patients and mice reveals that cysteine-rich with EGF-like domains 2 (CRELD2) is the paracrine factor that underlies PERK-mediated CAF education downstream of ROCK. We find that CRELD2 is regulated by PERK-regulated ATF4, and depleting CRELD2 suppressed tumour progression, demonstrating that the paracrine ROCK-PERK-ATF4-CRELD2 axis promotes the progression of breast cancer, with implications for cancer therapy."	1
"32075736"	"Genomic and Epidemiological Surveillance of Zika Virus in the Amazon Region.Zika virus (ZIKV) has caused an explosive epidemic linked to severe clinical outcomes in the Americas. As of June 2018, 4,929 ZIKV suspected infections and 46 congenital syndrome cases had been reported in Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil. Although Manaus is a key demographic hub in the Amazon region, little is known about the ZIKV epidemic there, in terms of both transmission and viral genetic diversity. Using portable virus genome sequencing, we generated 59 ZIKV genomes in Manaus. Phylogenetic analyses indicated multiple introductions of ZIKV from northeastern Brazil to Manaus. Spatial genomic analysis of virus movement among six areas in Manaus suggested that populous northern neighborhoods acted as sources of virus transmission to other neighborhoods. Our study revealed how the ZIKV epidemic was ignited and maintained within the largest urban metropolis in the Amazon. These results might contribute to improving the public health response to outbreaks in Brazil."	0
"32023461"	"Wnt3a Stimulation Promotes Primary Ciliogenesis through β-Catenin Phosphorylation-Induced Reorganization of Centriolar Satellites.Primary cilium is an antenna-like microtubule-based cellular sensing structure. Abnormal regulation of the dynamic assembly and disassembly cycle of primary cilia is closely related to ciliopathy and cancer. The Wnt signaling pathway plays a major role in embryonic development and tissue homeostasis, and defects in Wnt signaling are associated with a variety of human diseases, including cancer. In this study, we provide direct evidence of Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis, which includes a continuous pathway showing that the stimulation of Wnt3a, a canonical Wnt ligand, promotes the generation of β-catenin p-S47 epitope by CK1δ, and these events lead to the reorganization of centriolar satellites resulting in primary ciliogenesis. We have also confirmed the application of our findings in MCF-7/ADR cells, a multidrug-resistant tumor cell model. Thus, our data provide a Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis pathway and may provide a clue on how to overcome multidrug resistance in cancer treatment."	1
"32187540"	"Dead Cells Induce Innate Anergy via Mertk after Acute Viral Infection.Infections can result in a temporarily restricted unresponsiveness of the innate immune response, thereby limiting pathogen control. Mechanisms of such unresponsiveness are well studied in lipopolysaccharide tolerance; however, whether mechanisms of tolerance limit innate immunity during virus infection remains unknown. Here, we find that infection with the highly cytopathic vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) leads to innate anergy for several days. Innate anergy is associated with induction of apoptotic cells, which activates the Tyro3, Axl, and Mertk (TAM) receptor Mertk and induces high levels of interleukin-10 (IL-10) and transforming growth factor β (TGF-β). Lack of Mertk in Mertk<sup>-/-</sup> mice prevents induction of IL-10 and TGF-β, resulting in abrogation of innate anergy. Innate anergy is associated with enhanced VSV replication and poor survival after infection. Mechanistically, Mertk signaling upregulates suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1) and SOCS3. Dexamethasone treatment upregulates Mertk and enhances innate anergy in a Mertk-dependent manner. In conclusion, we identify Mertk as one major regulator of innate tolerance during infection with VSV."	0
"31999954"	"Autism-Misregulated eIF4G Microexons Control Synaptic Translation and Higher Order Cognitive Functions.Microexons represent the most highly conserved class of alternative splicing, yet their functions are poorly understood. Here, we focus on closely related neuronal microexons overlapping prion-like domains in the translation initiation factors, eIF4G1 and eIF4G3, the splicing of which is activity dependent and frequently disrupted in autism. CRISPR-Cas9 deletion of these microexons selectively upregulates synaptic proteins that control neuronal activity and plasticity and further triggers a gene expression program mirroring that of activated neurons. Mice lacking the Eif4g1 microexon display social behavior, learning, and memory deficits, accompanied by altered hippocampal synaptic plasticity. We provide evidence that the eIF4G microexons function as a translational brake by causing ribosome stalling, through their propensity to promote the coalescence of cytoplasmic granule components associated with translation repression, including the fragile X mental retardation protein FMRP. The results thus reveal an autism-disrupted mechanism by which alternative splicing specializes neuronal translation to control higher order cognitive functioning."	0
"32610121"	"Adipocyte-Derived Versican and Macrophage-Derived Biglycan Control Adipose Tissue Inflammation in Obesity.Obesity is characterized by adipose tissue inflammation. Because proteoglycans regulate inflammation, here we investigate their role in adipose tissue inflammation in obesity. We find that adipose tissue versican and biglycan increase in obesity. Versican is produced mainly by adipocytes and biglycan by adipose tissue macrophages. Both proteoglycans are also present in adipose tissue from obese human subjects undergoing gastric bypass surgery. Deletion of adipocyte-specific versican or macrophage-specific biglycan in mice reduces macrophage accumulation and chemokine and cytokine expression, although only adipocyte-specific versican deletion leads to sustained improvement in glucose tolerance. Macrophage-derived biglycan activates inflammatory genes in adipocytes. Versican expression increases in cultured adipocytes exposed to excess glucose, and adipocyte-conditioned medium stimulates inflammation in resident peritoneal macrophages, in part because of a versican breakdown product, versikine. These findings provide insights into the role of adipocyte- and macrophage-derived proteoglycans in adipose tissue inflammation in obesity."	0
"32320660"	"The Asymmetric Expression of SAUR Genes Mediated by ARF7/19 Promotes the Gravitropism and Phototropism of Plant Hypocotyls.The asymmetric distribution of auxin leads to the bending growth of hypocotyls during gravitropic and phototropic responses, but the signaling events downstream of auxin remain unclear. Here, we identify many SAUR genes showing asymmetric expression in soybean hypocotyls during gravistimulation and then study their homologs in Arabidopsis. SAUR19 subfamily genes have asymmetric expression in Arabidopsis hypocotyls during gravitropic and phototropic responses, induced by the lateral redistribution of auxin. Both the mutation of SAUR19 subfamily genes and the ectopic expression of SAUR19 weaken these tropic responses, indicating the critical role of their asymmetric expression. The auxin-responsive transcription factor ARF7 may directly bind the SAUR19 promoter and activate SAUR19 expression asymmetrically in tropic responses. Taken together, our results reveal that a gravity- or light-triggered asymmetric auxin distribution induces the asymmetric expression of SAUR19 subfamily genes by ARF7 and ARF19 in the hypocotyls, which leads to bending growth during gravitropic and phototropic responses."	1
"31812350"	"Targeting UBE4A Revives Viperin Protein in Epithelium to Enhance Host Antiviral Defense.Mutation and prevalence of pathogenic viruses prompt the development of broad-spectrum antiviral strategies. Viperin is a potent antiviral protein that inhibits a broad range of viruses. Unexpectedly, we found that Viperin protein production in epithelium is defective in response to both viruses and interferons (IFNs). We further revealed that viruses and IFNs stimulate expression of the acetyltransferase HAT1, which induces Lys197-acetylation on Viperin. Viperin acetylation in turn recruits UBE4A that stimulates K6-linked polyubiquitination at Lys206 of Viperin, leading to Viperin protein degradation. Importantly, UBE4A deficiency restores Viperin protein production in epithelium. We then designed interfering peptides (IPs) to inhibit UBE4A binding with Viperin. We found that VIP-IP3 rescues Viperin protein production in epithelium and therefore enhances cellular antiviral activity. VIP-IP3 renders mice more resistant to viral infection. These findings could provide strategies for both enhancing host broad-spectrum antiviral response and improving the efficacy of IFN-based antiviral therapy."	1
"30612879"	"The Crohn's Disease Risk Factor IRGM Limits NLRP3 Inflammasome Activation by Impeding Its Assembly and by Mediating Its Selective Autophagy.Several large-scale genome-wide association studies genetically linked IRGM to Crohn's disease and other inflammatory disorders in which the IRGM appears to have a protective function. However, the mechanism by which IRGM accomplishes this anti-inflammatory role remains unclear. Here, we reveal that IRGM/Irgm1 is a negative regulator of the NLRP3 inflammasome activation. We show that IRGM expression, which is increased by PAMPs, DAMPs, and microbes, can suppress the pro-inflammatory responses provoked by the same stimuli. IRGM/Irgm1 negatively regulates IL-1β maturation by suppressing the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. Mechanistically, we show that IRGM interacts with NLRP3 and ASC and hinders inflammasome assembly by blocking their oligomerization. Further, IRGM mediates selective autophagic degradation of NLRP3 and ASC. By suppressing inflammasome activation, IRGM/Irgm1 protects from pyroptosis and gut inflammation in a Crohn's disease experimental mouse model. This study for the first time identifies the mechanism by which IRGM is protective against inflammatory disorders."	1
"32783941"	"Signaling from Plastid Genome Stability Modulates Endoreplication and Cell Cycle during Plant Development.Plastid-nucleus genome coordination is crucial for plastid activity, but the mechanisms remain unclear. By treating Arabidopsis plants with the organellar genome-damaging agent ciprofloxacin, we found that plastid genome instability can alter endoreplication and the cell cycle. Similar results are observed in the plastid genome instability mutants of reca1why1why3. Cell division and embryo development are disturbed in the reca1why1why3 mutant. Notably, SMR5 and SMR7 genes, which encode cell-cycle kinase inhibitors, are upregulated in plastid genome instability plants, and the mutation of SMR7 can restore the endoreplication and growth phenotype of reca1why1why3 plants. Furthermore, we establish that the DNA damage response transcription factor SOG1 mediates the alteration of endoreplication and cell cycle triggered by plastid genome instability. Finally, we demonstrate that reactive oxygen species produced in plastids are important for plastid-nucleus genome coordination. Our findings uncover a molecular mechanism for the coordination of plastid and nuclear genomes during plant growth and development."	0
"31023583"	"ER and Nutrient Stress Promote Assembly of Respiratory Chain Supercomplexes through the PERK-eIF2α Axis.Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response are energetically challenging under nutrient stress conditions. However, the regulatory mechanisms that control the energetic demand under nutrient and ER stress are largely unknown. Here we show that ER stress and glucose deprivation stimulate mitochondrial bioenergetics and formation of respiratory supercomplexes (SCs) through protein kinase R-like ER kinase (PERK). Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of PERK suppresses nutrient and ER stress-mediated increases in SC levels and reduces oxidative phosphorylation-dependent ATP production. Conversely, PERK activation augments respiratory SCs. The PERK-eIF2α-ATF4 axis increases supercomplex assembly factor 1 (SCAF1 or COX7A2L), promoting SCs and enhanced mitochondrial respiration. PERK activation is sufficient to rescue bioenergetic defects caused by complex I missense mutations derived from mitochondrial disease patients. These studies have identified an energetic communication between ER and mitochondria, with implications in cell survival and diseases associated with mitochondrial failures."	1
"31586547"	"γ-6-Phosphogluconolactone, a Byproduct of the Oxidative Pentose Phosphate Pathway, Contributes to AMPK Activation through Inhibition of PP2A.The oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (oxiPPP) contributes to cell metabolism through not only the production of metabolic intermediates and reductive NADPH but also inhibition of LKB1-AMPK signaling by ribulose-5-phosphate (Ru-5-P), the product of the third oxiPPP enzyme 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD). However, we found that knockdown of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), the first oxiPPP enzyme, did not affect AMPK activation despite decreased Ru-5-P and subsequent LKB1 activation, due to enhanced activity of PP2A, the upstream phosphatase of AMPK. In contrast, knockdown of 6PGD or 6-phosphogluconolactonase (PGLS), the second oxiPPP enzyme, reduced PP2A activity. Mechanistically, knockdown of G6PD or PGLS decreased or increased 6-phosphogluconolactone level, respectively, which enhanced the inhibitory phosphorylation of PP2A by Src. Furthermore, γ-6-phosphogluconolactone, an oxiPPP byproduct with unknown function generated through intramolecular rearrangement of δ-6-phosphogluconolactone, the only substrate of PGLS, bound to Src and enhanced PP2A recruitment. Together, oxiPPP regulates AMPK homeostasis by balancing the opposing LKB1 and PP2A."	1
"31735641"	"Cancer-Derived Succinate Promotes Macrophage Polarization and Cancer Metastasis via Succinate Receptor.Macrophages form a major cell population in the tumor microenvironment. They can be activated and polarized into tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) by the tumor-derived soluble molecules to promote tumor progression and metastasis. Here, we used comparative metabolomics coupled with biochemical and animal studies to show that cancer cells release succinate into their microenvironment and activate succinate receptor (SUCNR1) signaling to polarize macrophages into TAM. Furthermore, the results from in vitro and in vivo studies revealed that succinate promotes not only cancer cell migration and invasion but also cancer metastasis. These effects are mediated by SUCNR1-triggered PI3K-hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) axis. Compared with healthy subjects and tumor-free lung tissues, serum succinate levels and lung cancer SUCNR1 expression were elevated in lung cancer patients, suggesting an important clinical relevance. Collectively, our findings indicate that the secreted tumor-derived succinate belongs to a novel class of cancer progression factors, controlling TAM polarization and promoting tumorigenic signaling."	1
"32017898"	"The Alazami Syndrome-Associated Protein LARP7 Guides U6 Small Nuclear RNA Modification and Contributes to Splicing Robustness.The La-related protein 7 (LARP7) forms a complex with the nuclear 7SK RNA to regulate RNA polymerase II transcription. It has been implicated in cancer and the Alazami syndrome, a severe developmental disorder. Here, we report a so far unknown role of this protein in RNA modification. We show that LARP7 physically connects the spliceosomal U6 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) with a distinct subset of box C/D small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) guiding U6 2'-O-methylation. Consistently, these modifications are severely compromised in the absence of LARP7. Although general splicing remains largely unaffected, transcriptome-wide analysis revealed perturbations in alternative splicing in LARP7-depleted cells. Importantly, we identified defects in 2'-O-methylation of the U6 snRNA in Alazami syndrome siblings carrying a LARP7 mutation. Our data identify LARP7 as a bridging factor for snoRNA-guided modification of the U6 snRNA and suggest that alterations in splicing fidelity contribute to the etiology of the Alazami syndrome."	1
"31324449"	"High-Throughput Analysis Reveals Rules for Target RNA Binding and Cleavage by AGO2.Argonaute proteins loaded with microRNAs (miRNAs) or small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) form the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), which represses target RNA expression. Predicting the biological targets, specificity, and efficiency of both miRNAs and siRNAs has been hamstrung by an incomplete understanding of the sequence determinants of RISC binding and cleavage. We applied high-throughput methods to measure the association kinetics, equilibrium binding energies, and single-turnover cleavage rates of mouse AGO2 RISC. We find that RISC readily tolerates insertions of up to 7 nt in its target opposite the central region of the guide. Our data uncover specific guide:target mismatches that enhance the rate of target cleavage, suggesting novel siRNA design strategies. Using these data, we derive quantitative models for RISC binding and target cleavage and show that our in vitro measurements and models predict knockdown in an engineered cellular system."	0
"32631953"	"Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome-associated mutants of the transcription factor FOXC1 abnormally regulate <i>NKX2-5</i> in model zebrafish embryos.FOXC1 is a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors, and whose function is poorly understood. A variety of <i>FOXC1</i> mutants have been identified in patients diagnosed with the autosomal dominant disease Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome, which is mainly characterized by abnormal development of the eyes, particularly those who also have accompanying congenital heart defects (CHD). However, the role of FOXC1 in CHD, and how these mutations might impact FOXC1 function, remains elusive. Our previous work provided one clue to possible function, demonstrating that zebrafish <i>foxc1a</i>, an orthologue of human <i>FOXC1</i> essential for heart development, directly regulates the expression of <i>nkx2.5</i>, encoding a transcriptional regulator of cardiac progenitor cells. Abnormal expression of <i>Nkx2-5</i> leads to CHD in mice and is also associated with CHD patients. Whether this link extends to the human system, however, requires investigation. In this study, we demonstrate that FOXC1 does regulate human <i>NKX2-5</i> expression in a dose-dependent manner via direct binding to its proximal promoter. A comparison of FOXC1 mutant function in the rat cardiac cell line H9c2 and zebrafish embryos suggested that the zebrafish embryos might serve as a more representative model system than the H9c2 cells. Finally, we noted that three of the Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome FOXC1 mutations tested increased, whereas a fourth repressed the expression of <i>NKX2-5</i> These results imply that mutant FOXC1s might play etiological roles in CHD by abnormally regulating <i>NKX2-5</i> in the patients. And zebrafish embryos can serve as a useful <i>in vivo</i> platform for rapidly evaluating disease-causing roles of mutated genes."	1
"32690607"	"Inhibitors of a Na<sup>+</sup>-pumping NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase play multiple roles to block enzyme function.The Na<sup>+</sup>-pumping NADH-ubiquinone (UQ) oxidoreductase (Na<sup>+</sup>-NQR) is present in the respiratory chain of many pathogenic bacteria and is thought to be a promising antibiotic target. Whereas many details of Na<sup>+</sup>-NQR structure and function are known, the mechanisms of action of potent inhibitors is not well-understood; elucidating the mechanisms would not only advance drug design strategies but might also provide insights on a terminal electron transfer from riboflavin to UQ. To this end, we performed photoaffinity labeling experiments using photoreactive derivatives of two known inhibitors, aurachin and korormicin, on isolated <i>Vibrio cholerae</i> Na<sup>+</sup>-NQR. The inhibitors labeled the cytoplasmic surface domain of the NqrB subunit including a protruding N-terminal stretch, which may be critical to regulate the UQ reaction in the adjacent NqrA subunit. The labeling was blocked by short-chain UQs such as ubiquinone-2. The photolabile group (2-aryl-5-carboxytetrazole (ACT)) of these inhibitors reacts with nucleophilic amino acids, so we tested mutations of nucleophilic residues in the labeled region of NqrB, such as Asp<sup>49</sup> and Asp<sup>52</sup> (to Ala), and observed moderate decreases in labeling yields, suggesting that these residues are involved in the interaction with ACT. We conclude that the inhibitors interfere with the UQ reaction in two ways: the first is blocking structural rearrangements at the cytoplasmic interface between NqrA and NqrB, and the second is the direct obstruction of UQ binding at this interfacial area. Unusual competitive behavior between the photoreactive inhibitors and various competitors corroborates our previous proposition that there may be two inhibitor binding sites in Na<sup>+</sup>-NQR."	0
"32499403"	"Dynamic regulation of histone modifications and long-range chromosomal interactions during postmitotic transcriptional reactivation.During mitosis, transcription of genomic DNA is dramatically reduced, before it is reactivated during nuclear reformation in anaphase/telophase. Many aspects of the underlying principles that mediate transcriptional memory and reactivation in the daughter cells remain unclear. Here, we used ChIP-seq on synchronized cells at different stages after mitosis to generate genome-wide maps of histone modifications. Combined with EU-RNA-seq and Hi-C analyses, we found that during prometaphase, promoters, enhancers, and insulators retain H3K4me3 and H3K4me1, while losing H3K27ac. Enhancers globally retaining mitotic H3K4me1 or locally retaining mitotic H3K27ac are associated with cell type-specific genes and their transcription factors for rapid transcriptional activation. As cells exit mitosis, promoters regain H3K27ac, which correlates with transcriptional reactivation. Insulators also gain H3K27ac and CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) in anaphase/telophase. This increase of H3K27ac in anaphase/telophase is required for posttranscriptional activation and may play a role in the establishment of topologically associating domains (TADs). Together, our results suggest that the genome is reorganized in a sequential order, in which histone methylations occur first in prometaphase, histone acetylation, and CTCF in anaphase/telophase, transcription in cytokinesis, and long-range chromatin interactions in early G1. We thus provide insights into the histone modification landscape that allows faithful reestablishment of the transcriptional program and TADs during cell division."	0
"31051138"	"Getting in LINE with Replication.Sultana et al. (2019) and Flasch et al. (2019) determined integration patterns of human LINE-1 (long interspersed element-1) retrotransposons highlighting their interaction with DNA replication guided by their 5'-TTTT/AA-3' integration motif and nucleotide biases in the genome."	0
"32554467"	"The RAS-interacting chaperone UNC119 drives the RASSF6-MDM2-p53 axis and antagonizes RAS-mediated malignant transformation.The gene encoding the proto-oncogene GTPase RAS is frequently mutated in human cancers. Mutated RAS proteins trigger antiapoptotic and cell-proliferative signals and lead to oncogenesis. However, RAS also induces apoptosis and senescence, which may contribute to the eradication of cells with RAS mutations. We previously reported that Ras association domain family member 6 (RASSF6) binds MDM2 and stabilizes the tumor suppressor p53 and that the active form of KRAS promotes the interaction between RASSF6 and MDM2. We also reported that Unc-119 lipid-binding chaperone (UNC119A), a chaperone of myristoylated proteins, interacts with RASSF6 and regulates RASSF6-mediated apoptosis. In this study, using several human cancer cell lines, quantitative RT-PCR, RNAi-based gene silencing, and immunoprecipitation/-fluorescence and cell biology assays, we report that UNC119A interacts with the active form of KRAS and that the C-terminal modification of KRAS is required for this interaction. We also noted that the hydrophobic pocket of UNC119A, which binds the myristoylated peptides, is not involved in the interaction. We observed that UNC119A promotes the binding of KRAS to RASSF6, enhances the interaction between RASSF6 and MDM2, and induces apoptosis. Conversely, <i>UNC119A</i> silencing promoted soft-agar colony formation, migration, and invasiveness in KRAS-mutated cancer cells. We conclude that UNC119A promotes KRAS-mediated p53-dependent apoptosis via RASSF6 and may play a tumor-suppressive role in cells with KRAS mutations."	1
"31982308"	"Cancer Cells Employ Nuclear Caspase-8 to Overcome the p53-Dependent G2/M Checkpoint through Cleavage of USP28.Cytosolic caspase-8 is a mediator of death receptor signaling. While caspase-8 expression is lost in some tumors, it is increased in others, indicating a conditional pro-survival function of caspase-8 in cancer. Here, we show that tumor cells employ DNA-damage-induced nuclear caspase-8 to override the p53-dependent G2/M cell-cycle checkpoint. Caspase-8 is upregulated and localized to the nucleus in multiple human cancers, correlating with treatment resistance and poor clinical outcome. Depletion of caspase-8 causes G2/M arrest, stabilization of p53, and induction of p53-dependent intrinsic apoptosis in tumor cells. In the nucleus, caspase-8 cleaves and inactivates the ubiquitin-specific peptidase 28 (USP28), preventing USP28 from de-ubiquitinating and stabilizing wild-type p53. This results in de facto p53 protein loss, switching cell fate from apoptosis toward mitosis. In summary, our work identifies a non-canonical role of caspase-8 exploited by cancer cells to override the p53-dependent G2/M cell-cycle checkpoint."	1
"32610129"	"Angiocrine Sphingosine-1-Phosphate Activation of S1PR2-YAP Signaling Axis in Alveolar Type II Cells Is Essential for Lung Repair.Lung alveolar epithelium is composed of alveolar type I (AT1) and type II (AT2) cells. AT1 cells mediate gas exchange, whereas AT2 cells act as progenitor cells to repair injured alveoli. Lung microvascular endothelial cells (LMVECs) play a crucial but still poorly understood role in regulating alveolar repair. Here, we studied the role of the LMVEC-derived bioactive lipid sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) in promoting alveolar repair using mice with endothelial-specific deletion of sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1), the key enzyme promoting S1P generation. These mutant lungs developed airspace-enlargement lesions and exhibited a reduced number of AT1 cells after Pseudomonas-aeruginosa-induced lung injury. We demonstrated that S1P released by LMVECs acted via its receptor, S1PR2, on AT2 cells and induced nuclear translocation of yes-associated protein (YAP), a regulator of AT2 to AT1 transition. Thus, angiocrine S1P released after injury acts via the S1PR2-YAP signaling axis on AT2 cells to promote AT2 to AT1 differentiation required for alveolar repair."	1
"32246903"	"Differential Scaling of Gene Expression with Cell Size May Explain Size Control in Budding Yeast.Yeast cells must grow to a critical size before committing to division. It is unknown how size is measured. We find that as cells grow, mRNAs for some cell-cycle activators scale faster than size, increasing in concentration, while mRNAs for some inhibitors scale slower than size, decreasing in concentration. Size-scaled gene expression could cause an increasing ratio of activators to inhibitors with size, triggering cell-cycle entry. Consistent with this, expression of the CLN2 activator from the promoter of the WHI5 inhibitor, or vice versa, interfered with cell size homeostasis, yielding a broader distribution of cell sizes. We suggest that size homeostasis comes from differential scaling of gene expression with size. Differential regulation of gene expression as a function of cell size could affect many cellular processes."	0
"31968263"	"A Comprehensive Map of the Monocyte-Derived Dendritic Cell Transcriptional Network Engaged upon Innate Sensing of HIV.Transcriptional programming of the innate immune response is pivotal for host protection. However, the transcriptional mechanisms that link pathogen sensing with innate activation remain poorly understood. During HIV-1 infection, human dendritic cells (DCs) can detect the virus through an innate sensing pathway, leading to antiviral interferon and DC maturation. Here, we develop an iterative experimental and computational approach to map the HIV-1 innate response circuitry in monocyte-derived DCs (MDDCs). By integrating genome-wide chromatin accessibility with expression kinetics, we infer a gene regulatory network that links 542 transcription factors with 21,862 target genes. We observe that an interferon response is required, yet insufficient, to drive MDDC maturation and identify PRDM1 and RARA as essential regulators of the interferon response and MDDC maturation, respectively. Our work provides a resource for interrogation of regulators of HIV replication and innate immunity, highlighting complexity and cooperativity in the regulatory circuit controlling the response to infection."	0
"31542297"	"Glutarylation of Histone H4 Lysine 91 Regulates Chromatin Dynamics.Histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) regulate chromatin structure and dynamics during various DNA-associated processes. Here, we report that lysine glutarylation (Kglu) occurs at 27 lysine residues on human core histones. Using semi-synthetic glutarylated histones, we show that an evolutionarily conserved Kglu at histone H4K91 destabilizes nucleosome in vitro. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the replacement of H4K91 by glutamate that mimics Kglu influences chromatin structure and thereby results in a global upregulation of transcription and defects in cell-cycle progression, DNA damage repair, and telomere silencing. In mammalian cells, H4K91glu is mainly enriched at promoter regions of highly expressed genes. A downregulation of H4K91glu is tightly associated with chromatin condensation during mitosis and in response to DNA damage. The cellular dynamics of H4K91glu is controlled by Sirt7 as a deglutarylase and KAT2A as a glutaryltransferase. This study designates a new histone mark (Kglu) as a new regulatory mechanism for chromatin dynamics."	1
"32905768"	"The Negative Cross-Talk between SAG/RBX2/ROC2 and APC/C E3 Ligases in Regulation of Cell Cycle Progression and Drug Resistance.Anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is a well-characterized E3 ligase that couples with UBE2C and UBE2S E2s for substrate ubiquitylation by the K11 linkage. Our recent data show that SAG/RBX2/ROC2, a RING component of Cullin-RING E3 ligase, also complexes with these E2s for K11-linked substrate polyubiquitylation. Whether these two E3s cross-talk with each other was previously unknown. Here, we report that SAG competes with APC2 for UBE2C/UBE2S binding to act as a potential endogenous inhibitor of APC/C, thereby regulating the G2-to-M progression. As such, SAG knockdown triggers premature activation of APC/C, leading to mitotic slippage and resistance to anti-microtubule drugs. On the other hand, SAG itself is a substrate of APC/C<sup>CDH1</sup> for targeted degradation at the G1 phase. The degradation-resistant mutant of SAG-R98A/L101A accelerates the G1-to-S progression. Our study reveals that the negative cross-talk between SAG and APC/C is likely a mechanism to ensure the fidelity of cell cycle progression."	1
"32294444"	"In Vitro Generation of Leishmania Hybrids.Protozoan parasites in the genus Leishmania produce a broad spectrum of diseases in their human hosts. The strain and species-specific genes controlling these diverse clinical outcomes have remained poorly tractable using reverse genetics approaches. A cryptic sexual cycle involving a meiotic-like process has been described in Leishmania but is so far confined to parasites growing in the sand fly vector. Here, we describe the reproducible in vitro generation of hybrid clones using axenic culture forms of Leishmania tropica promastigotes. Analysis of SNPs marker inheritance and whole-genome sequencing data indicate that the progeny clones are full genomic hybrids. The demonstration that mating-competent forms arise in culture should facilitate experimental study of the mating biology of Leishmania and the generation of large numbers of recombinant parasites for positional cloning of important genes."	0
"32692974"	"Translational Repression of G3BP in Cancer and Germ Cells Suppresses Stress Granules and Enhances Stress Tolerance.Stress granules (SGs) are membrane-less ribonucleoprotein condensates that form in response to various stress stimuli via phase separation. SGs act as a protective mechanism to cope with acute stress, but persistent SGs have cytotoxic effects that are associated with several age-related diseases. Here, we demonstrate that the testis-specific protein, MAGE-B2, increases cellular stress tolerance by suppressing SG formation through translational inhibition of the key SG nucleator G3BP. MAGE-B2 reduces G3BP protein levels below the critical concentration for phase separation and suppresses SG initiation. Knockout of the MAGE-B2 mouse ortholog or overexpression of G3BP1 confers hypersensitivity of the male germline to heat stress in vivo. Thus, MAGE-B2 provides cytoprotection to maintain mammalian spermatogenesis, a highly thermosensitive process that must be preserved throughout reproductive life. These results demonstrate a mechanism that allows for tissue-specific resistance against stress and could aid in the development of male fertility therapies."	1
"32004469"	"Toward a Structural Understanding of Class B GPCR Peptide Binding and Activation.Class B G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are important therapeutic targets for major diseases. Here, we present structures of peptide and Gs-bound pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide, PAC1 receptor, and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), (CRF1) receptor. Together with recently solved structures, these provide coverage of the major class B GPCR subfamilies. Diverse orientations of the extracellular domain to the receptor core in different receptors are at least partially dependent on evolutionary conservation in the structure and nature of peptide interactions. Differences in peptide interactions to the receptor core also influence the interlinked TM2-TM1-TM6/ECL3/TM7 domain, and this is likely important in their diverse signaling. However, common conformational reorganization of ECL2, linked to reorganization of ICL2, modulates G protein contacts. Comparison between receptors reveals ICL2 as a key domain forming dynamic G protein interactions in a receptor- and ligand-specific manner. This work advances our understanding of class B GPCR activation and Gs coupling."	0
"32571879"	"Comparative study of the stabilities of synthetic <i>in vitro</i> and natural <i>ex vivo</i> transthyretin amyloid fibrils.Systemic amyloidosis caused by extracellular deposition of insoluble fibrils derived from the pathological aggregation of circulating proteins, such as transthyretin, is a severe and usually fatal condition. Elucidation of the molecular pathogenic mechanism of the disease and discovery of effective therapies still represents a challenging medical issue. The <i>in vitro</i> preparation of amyloid fibrils that exhibit structural and biochemical properties closely similar to those of natural fibrils is central to improving our understanding of the biophysical basis of amyloid formation <i>in vivo</i> and may offer an important tool for drug discovery. Here, we compared the morphology and thermodynamic stability of natural transthyretin fibrils with those of fibrils generated <i>in vitro</i> either using the common acidification procedure or primed by limited selective cleavage by plasmin. The free energies for fibril formation were -12.36, -8.10, and -10.61 kcal mol<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The fibrils generated via plasmin cleavage were more stable than those prepared at low pH and were thermodynamically and morphologically similar to natural fibrils extracted from human amyloidotic tissue. Determination of thermodynamic stability is an important tool that is complementary to other methods of structural comparison between <i>ex vivo</i> fibrils and fibrils generated <i>in vitro</i> Our finding that fibrils created via an <i>in vitro</i> amyloidogenic pathway are structurally similar to <i>ex vivo</i> human amyloid fibrils does not necessarily establish that the fibrillogenic pathway is the same for both, but it narrows the current knowledge gap between <i>in vitro</i> models and <i>in vivo</i> pathophysiology."	0
"31995757"	"The Functional Organization of Cortical and Thalamic Inputs onto Five Types of Striatal Neurons Is Determined by Source and Target Cell Identities.To understand striatal function, it is essential to know the functional organization of the numerous inputs targeting the diverse population of striatal neurons. Using optogenetics, we activated terminals from ipsi- or contralateral primary somatosensory cortex (S1) or primary motor cortex (M1), or thalamus while obtaining simultaneous whole-cell recordings from pairs or triplets of striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) and adjacent interneurons. Ipsilateral corticostriatal projections provided stronger excitation to fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs) than to MSNs and only sparse and weak excitation to low threshold-spiking interneurons (LTSIs) and cholinergic interneurons (ChINs). Projections from contralateral M1 evoked the strongest responses in LTSIs but none in ChINs, whereas thalamus provided the strongest excitation to ChINs but none to LTSIs. In addition, inputs varied in their glutamate receptor composition and their short-term plasticity. Our data revealed a highly selective organization of excitatory striatal afferents, which is determined by both pre- and postsynaptic neuronal identity."	0
"32160541"	"Inter-dependent Centrosomal Co-localization of the cen and ik2 cis-Natural Antisense mRNAs in Drosophila.Overlapping genes are prevalent in most genomes, but the extent to which this organization influences regulatory events operating at the post-transcriptional level remains unclear. Studying the cen and ik2 genes of Drosophila melanogaster, which are convergently transcribed as cis-natural antisense transcripts (cis-NATs) with overlapping 3' UTRs, we found that their encoded mRNAs strikingly co-localize to centrosomes. These transcripts physically interact in a 3' UTR-dependent manner, and the targeting of ik2 requires its 3' UTR sequence and the presence of cen mRNA, which serves as the main driver of centrosomal co-localization. The cen transcript undergoes localized translation in proximity to centrosomes, and its localization is perturbed by polysome-disrupting drugs. By interrogating global fractionation-sequencing datasets generated from Drosophila and human cellular models, we find that RNAs expressed as cis-NATs tend to co-localize to specific subcellular fractions. This work suggests that post-transcriptional interactions between RNAs with complementary sequences can dictate their localization fate in the cytoplasm."	0
"32386539"	"Life in the (Pluripotent) Fast Lane: Cdk1 Preserves the Epigenome to Maintain Pluripotency.Michowski and colleagues (2020) engineered analog-sensitive Cdk1 knockin mice to identify Cdk1 targets in embryonic stem cells, which led them to discover a novel function for Cdk1 in shaping the epigenetic landscape by direct regulation of epigenetic modulators."	0
"32460017"	"Pyruvate Kinase M2 Promotes the Activation of Dendritic Cells by Enhancing IL-12p35 Expression.Dendritic cells (DCs) play a central role in both innate and adaptive immunity. Emerging evidence has demonstrated metabolic reprogramming during DC activation. However, how DC activation is linked with metabolic reprogramming remains unclear. Here we show that pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), the rate-limiting enzyme in the last step of glycolysis, is critical for LPS-induced DC activation. Upon DC activation, JNK signaling stimulated p300 association with PKM2 for the acetylation of lysine 433, a classic posttranslational modification critical for PKM2 destabilization and nuclear re-localization. Subsequently, nuclear PKM2 partnered with c-Rel to enhance Il12p35 expression, which is important for Th1 cell differentiation. Meanwhile, decreased enzymatic activity of PKM2 due to detetramerization facilitated glycolysis and fatty acid synthesis, helping DCs meet their need for biomacromolecules. Together, we provide evidence for metabolic control of DC activation and offer insights into aberrant immune responses due to dysregulated Th1 functions."	1
"31398320"	"Manipulation by Methylation: Garnishing mRNAs with m<sup>6</sup>Am.In two recent publications in Molecular Cell,Boulias et al. (2019) and Sendinc et al. (2019) use complementary approaches to map m<sup>6</sup>Am modification sites transcriptome-wide and demonstrate that m<sup>6</sup>Am can repress translation while increasing the stability of a subset of low-abundance transcripts."	0
"31227231"	"HCF-1 Regulates De Novo Lipogenesis through a Nutrient-Sensitive Complex with ChREBP.Carbohydrate response element binding protein (ChREBP) is a key transcriptional regulator of de novo lipogenesis (DNL) in response to carbohydrates and in hepatic steatosis. Mechanisms underlying nutrient modulation of ChREBP are under active investigation. Here we identify host cell factor 1 (HCF-1) as a previously unknown ChREBP-interacting protein that is enriched in liver biopsies of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) patients. Biochemical and genetic studies show that HCF-1 is O-GlcNAcylated in response to glucose as a prerequisite for its binding to ChREBP and subsequent recruitment of OGT, ChREBP O-GlcNAcylation, and activation. The HCF-1:ChREBP complex resides at lipogenic gene promoters, where HCF-1 regulates H3K4 trimethylation to prime recruitment of the Jumonji C domain-containing histone demethylase PHF2 for epigenetic activation of these promoters. Overall, these findings define HCF-1's interaction with ChREBP as a previously unappreciated mechanism whereby glucose signals are both relayed to ChREBP and transmitted for epigenetic regulation of lipogenic genes."	1
"32807903"	"Decapping enzyme 1A breaks X-chromosome symmetry by controlling Tsix elongation and RNA turnover.How allelic asymmetry is generated remains a major unsolved problem in epigenetics. Here we model the problem using X-chromosome inactivation by developing ""BioRBP"", an enzymatic RNA-proteomic method that enables probing of low-abundance interactions and an allelic RNA-depletion and -tagging system. We identify messenger RNA-decapping enzyme 1A (DCP1A) as a key regulator of Tsix, a noncoding RNA implicated in allelic choice through X-chromosome pairing. DCP1A controls Tsix half-life and transcription elongation. Depleting DCP1A causes accumulation of X-X pairs and perturbs the transition to monoallelic Tsix expression required for Xist upregulation. While ablating DCP1A causes hyperpairing, forcing Tsix degradation resolves pairing and enables Xist upregulation. We link pairing to allelic partitioning of CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) and show that tethering DCP1A to one Tsix allele is sufficient to drive monoallelic Xist expression. Thus, DCP1A flips a bistable switch for the mutually exclusive determination of active and inactive Xs."	1
"32006464"	"Localized Inhibition of Protein Phosphatase 1 by NUAK1 Promotes Spliceosome Activity and Reveals a MYC-Sensitive Feedback Control of Transcription.Deregulated expression of MYC induces a dependence on the NUAK1 kinase, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this dependence have not been fully clarified. Here, we show that NUAK1 is a predominantly nuclear protein that associates with a network of nuclear protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) interactors and that PNUTS, a nuclear regulatory subunit of PP1, is phosphorylated by NUAK1. Both NUAK1 and PNUTS associate with the splicing machinery. Inhibition of NUAK1 abolishes chromatin association of PNUTS, reduces spliceosome activity, and suppresses nascent RNA synthesis. Activation of MYC does not bypass the requirement for NUAK1 for spliceosome activity but significantly attenuates transcription inhibition. Consequently, NUAK1 inhibition in MYC-transformed cells induces global accumulation of RNAPII both at the pause site and at the first exon-intron boundary but does not increase mRNA synthesis. We suggest that NUAK1 inhibition in the presence of deregulated MYC traps non-productive RNAPII because of the absence of correctly assembled spliceosomes."	1
"30595436"	"Replication-Coupled DNA-Protein Crosslink Repair by SPRTN and the Proteasome in Xenopus Egg Extracts.DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are bulky lesions that interfere with DNA metabolism and therefore threaten genomic integrity. Recent studies implicate the metalloprotease SPRTN in S phase removal of DPCs, but how SPRTN is targeted to DPCs during DNA replication is unknown. Using Xenopus egg extracts that recapitulate replication-coupled DPC proteolysis, we show that DPCs can be degraded by SPRTN or the proteasome, which act as independent DPC proteases. Proteasome recruitment requires DPC polyubiquitylation, which is partially dependent on the ubiquitin ligase activity of TRAIP. In contrast, SPRTN-mediated DPC degradation does not require DPC polyubiquitylation but instead depends on nascent strand extension to within a few nucleotides of the lesion, implying that polymerase stalling at the DPC activates SPRTN on both leading and lagging strand templates. Our results demonstrate that SPRTN and proteasome activities are coupled to DNA replication by distinct mechanisms that promote replication across immovable protein barriers."	0
"32640223"	"GM-CSF Calibrates Macrophage Defense and Wound Healing Programs during Intestinal Infection and Inflammation.Macrophages play a central role in intestinal immunity, but inappropriate macrophage activation is associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Here, we identify granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) as a critical regulator of intestinal macrophage activation in patients with IBD and mice with dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis. We find that GM-CSF drives the maturation and polarization of inflammatory intestinal macrophages, promoting anti-microbial functions while suppressing wound-healing transcriptional programs. Group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s) are a major source of GM-CSF in intestinal inflammation, with a strong positive correlation observed between ILC or CSF2 transcripts and M1 macrophage signatures in IBD mucosal biopsies. Furthermore, GM-CSF-dependent macrophage polarization results in a positive feedback loop that augmented ILC3 activation and type 17 immunity. Together, our data reveal an important role for GM-CSF-mediated ILC-macrophage crosstalk in calibrating intestinal macrophage phenotype to enhance anti-bacterial responses, while inhibiting pro-repair functions associated with fibrosis and stricturing, with important clinical implications."	0
"31377116"	"Early Scanning of Nascent Polypeptides inside the Ribosomal Tunnel by NAC.Cotranslational processing of newly synthesized proteins is fundamental for correct protein maturation. Protein biogenesis factors are thought to bind nascent polypeptides not before they exit the ribosomal tunnel. Here, we identify a nascent chain recognition mechanism deep inside the ribosomal tunnel by an essential eukaryotic cytosolic chaperone. The nascent polypeptide-associated complex (NAC) inserts the N-terminal tail of its β subunit (N-βNAC) into the ribosomal tunnel to sense substrates directly upon synthesis close to the peptidyl-transferase center. N-βNAC escorts the growing polypeptide to the cytosol and relocates to an alternate binding site on the ribosomal surface. Using C. elegans as an in vivo model, we demonstrate that the tunnel-probing activity of NAC is essential for organismal viability and critical to regulate endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein transport by controlling ribosome-Sec61 translocon interactions. Thus, eukaryotic protein maturation relies on the early sampling of nascent chains inside the ribosomal tunnel."	0
"32817125"	"Finding proteases that make cells go viral.The activation of influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) glycoprotein via cleavage by host cell proteases is essential for viral infectivity, and understanding the mechanisms for HA protein cleavage and how they may differ depending on the biological context is important for the development of flu treatments. However, the HA proteases involved in the activation of many viral strains remain unidentified. In this issue, Harbig <i>et al.</i> identify a repertoire of proteases that cleave HA and determine the proteases' functionality against specific HA glycoproteins."	0
"32703900"	"Regulation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 dynamics through multisite phosphorylation by GSK3.Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 (eIF6) is essential for the synthesis of 60S ribosomal subunits and for regulating the association of 60S and 40S subunits. A mechanistic understanding of how eIF6 modulates translation in response to stress, specifically starvation-induced stress, is lacking. We here show a novel mode of eIF6 regulation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) that is predominantly active in response to serum starvation. Both GSK3α and GSK3β phosphorylate human eIF6. Multiple residues in the C terminus of eIF6 are phosphorylated by GSK3 in a sequential manner. In response to serum starvation, eIF6 accumulates in the cytoplasm, and this altered localization depends on phosphorylation by GSK3. Disruption of eIF6 phosphorylation exacerbates the translation inhibitory response to serum starvation and stalls cell growth. These results suggest that eIF6 regulation by GSK3 contributes to the attenuation of global protein synthesis that is critical for adaptation to starvation-induced stress."	1
"31677974"	"Control of RNA Pol II Speed by PNUTS-PP1 and Spt5 Dephosphorylation Facilitates Termination by a ""Sitting Duck Torpedo"" Mechanism.Control of transcription speed, which influences many co-transcriptional processes, is poorly understood. We report that PNUTS-PP1 phosphatase is a negative regulator of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) elongation rate. The PNUTS W401A mutation, which disrupts PP1 binding, causes genome-wide acceleration of transcription associated with hyper-phosphorylation of the Spt5 elongation factor. Immediately downstream of poly(A) sites, Pol II decelerates from >2 kb/min to <1 kb/min, which correlates with Spt5 dephosphorylation. Pol II deceleration and Spt5 dephosphorylation require poly(A) site recognition and the PNUTS-PP1 complex, which is in turn necessary for transcription termination. These results lead to a model for termination, the ""sitting duck torpedo"" mechanism, where poly(A) site-dependent deceleration caused by PNUTS-PP1 and Spt5 dephosphorylation is required to convert Pol II into a viable target for the Xrn2 terminator exonuclease. Spt5 and its bacterial homolog NusG therefore have related functions controlling kinetic competition between RNA polymerases and the termination factors that pursue them."	1
"32521254"	"Sex-Specific Disruption of Distinct mPFC Inhibitory Neurons in Spared-Nerve Injury Model of Neuropathic Pain.The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) modulates a range of behaviors, including responses to noxious stimuli. While various pain modalities alter mPFC function, our understanding of changes to specific cell types underlying pain-induced mPFC dysfunction remains incomplete. Proper activity of cortical GABAergic interneurons is essential for normal circuit function. We find that nerve injury increases excitability of layer 5 parvalbumin-expressing neurons in the prelimbic (PL) region of the mPFC from male, but not female, mice. Conversely, nerve injury dampens excitability in somatostatin-expressing neurons in layer 2/3 of the PL region; however, effects are differential between males and females. Nerve injury slightly increases the frequency of spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic currents (sEPSCs) in layer 5 parvalbumin-expressing neurons in males but reduces frequency of sEPSCs in layer 2/3 somatostatin-expressing neurons in females. Our findings provide key insight into how nerve injury drives maladaptive and sex-specific alterations to GABAergic circuits in cortical regions implicated in chronic pain."	0
"31940494"	"Mouse Ovarian Cancer Models Recapitulate the Human Tumor Microenvironment and Patient Response to Treatment.Although there are many prospective targets in the tumor microenvironment (TME) of high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC), pre-clinical testing is challenging, especially as there is limited information on the murine TME. Here, we characterize the TME of six orthotopic, transplantable syngeneic murine HGSOC lines established from genetic models and compare these to patient biopsies. We identify significant correlations between the transcriptome, host cell infiltrates, matrisome, vasculature, and tissue modulus of mouse and human TMEs, with several stromal and malignant targets in common. However, each model shows distinct differences and potential vulnerabilities that enabled us to test predictions about response to chemotherapy and an anti-IL-6 antibody. Using machine learning, the transcriptional profiles of the mouse tumors that differed in chemotherapy response are able to classify chemotherapy-sensitive and -refractory patient tumors. These models provide useful pre-clinical tools and may help identify subgroups of HGSOC patients who are most likely to respond to specific therapies."	0
"31940492"	"FBXW7 Confers Radiation Survival by Targeting p53 for Degradation.The tumor suppressor p53 plays a critical role in integrating a wide variety of stress responses. Therefore, p53 levels are precisely regulated by multiple ubiquitin ligases. In this study, we report that FBXW7, a substrate recognition component of the SKP1-CUL1-F-box (SCF) E3 ligase, interacts with and targets p53 for polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation after exposure to ionizing radiation or etoposide. Mechanistically, DNA damage activates ATM to phosphorylate p53 on Ser33 and Ser37, which facilitates the FBXW7 binding and subsequent p53 degradation by SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup>. Inactivation of ATM or SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup> by small molecular inhibitors or genetic knockdown/knockout approaches extends the p53 protein half-life upon DNA damage in an MDM2-independent manner. Biologically, FBXW7 inactivation sensitizes cancer cells to radiation or etoposide by stabilizing p53 to induce cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. Taken together, our study elucidates a mechanism by which FBXW7 confers cancer cell survival during radiotherapy or chemotherapy via p53 targeting."	1
"32877680"	"A Regulatory Program for Initiation of Wnt Signaling during Posterior Regeneration.Whole-body regeneration relies on the re-establishment of body axes for patterning of new tissue. Wnt signaling is required to correctly regenerate tissues along the primary axis in many animals. However, the causal mechanisms that first launch Wnt signaling during regeneration are poorly characterized. We use the acoel worm Hofstenia miamia to identify processes that initiate Wnt signaling during posterior regeneration and find that the ligand wnt-3 is upregulated early in posterior-facing wounds. Functional studies reveal that wnt-3 is required to regenerate posterior tissues. wnt-3 is expressed in stem cells, it is needed for their proliferation, and its function is stem cell dependent. Chromatin accessibility data reveal that wnt-3 activation requires input from the general wound response. In addition, the expression of a different Wnt ligand, wnt-1, before amputation is required for wound-induced activation of wnt-3. Our study establishes a gene regulatory network for initiating Wnt signaling in posterior tissues in a bilaterian."	0
"30642763"	"The RNA-Binding Protein PUM2 Impairs Mitochondrial Dynamics and Mitophagy During Aging.Little information is available about how post-transcriptional mechanisms regulate the aging process. Here, we show that the RNA-binding protein Pumilio2 (PUM2), which is a translation repressor, is induced upon aging and acts as a negative regulator of lifespan and mitochondrial homeostasis. Multi-omics and cross-species analyses of PUM2 function show that it inhibits the translation of the mRNA encoding for the mitochondrial fission factor (Mff), thereby impairing mitochondrial fission and mitophagy. This mechanism is conserved in C. elegans by the PUM2 ortholog PUF-8. puf-8 knock-down in old nematodes and Pum2 CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout in the muscles of elderly mice enhances mitochondrial fission and mitophagy in both models, hence improving mitochondrial quality control and tissue homeostasis. Our data reveal how a PUM2-mediated layer of post-transcriptional regulation links altered Mff translation to mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy, thereby mediating age-related mitochondrial dysfunctions."	1
"32610119"	"H1N1 Influenza Virus Cross-Activates Gli1 to Disrupt the Intercellular Junctions of Alveolar Epithelial Cells.Influenza A virus (IAV) primarily infects the airway and alveolar epithelial cells and disrupts the intercellular junctions, leading to increased paracellular permeability. Although this pathological change plays a critical role in lung tissue injury and secondary infection, the molecular mechanism of IAV-induced damage to the alveolar barrier remains obscure. Here, we report that Gli1, a transcription factor in the sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling pathway, is cross-activated by the MAP and PI3 kinase pathways in H1N1 virus (PR8)-infected A549 cells and in the lungs of H1N1 virus-infected mice. Gli1 activation induces Snail expression, which downregulates the expression of intercellular junction proteins, including E-cadherin, ZO-1, and Occludin, and increases paracellular permeability. Inhibition of the Shh pathway restores the levels of Snail and intercellular junction proteins in H1N1-infected cells. Our study suggests that Gli1 activation plays an important role in disrupting the intercellular junctions and in promoting the pathogenesis of H1N1 virus infections."	0
"32580944"	"Negatively charged amino acids in the stalk region of membrane proteins reduce ectodomain shedding.Ectodomain shedding is a post-translational modification mechanism by which the entire extracellular domain of membrane proteins is liberated through juxtamembrane processing. Because shedding rapidly and irreversibly alters the characteristics of cells, this process is properly regulated. However, the molecular mechanisms governing the propensity of membrane proteins to shedding are largely unknown. Here, we present evidence that negatively charged amino acids within the stalk region, an unstructured juxtamembrane region at which shedding occurs, contribute to shedding susceptibility. We show that two <u>a</u>ctivated <u>leukocyte c</u>ell <u>a</u>dhesion <u>m</u>olecule (ALCAM) protein variants produced by alternative splicing have different susceptibilities to ADAM metallopeptidase domain 17 (ADAM17)-mediated shedding. Of note, the inclusion of a stalk region encoded by a 39-bp-long alternative exon conferred shedding resistance. We found that this alternative exon encodes a large proportion of negatively charged amino acids, which we demonstrate are indispensable for conferring the shedding resistance. We also show that the introduction of negatively charged amino acids into the stalk region of shedding-susceptible ALCAM variant protein attenuates its shedding. Furthermore, we observed that negatively charged amino acids residing in the stalk region of Erb-B2 receptor tyrosine kinase 4 (ERBB4) are indispensable for its shedding resistance. Collectively, our results indicate that negatively charged amino acids within the stalk region interfere with the shedding of multiple membrane proteins. We conclude that the composition of the stalk region determines the shedding susceptibility of membrane proteins."	0
"32839551"	"Acetylation-dependent regulation of PD-L1 nuclear translocation dictates the efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.Immunotherapies that target programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and its ligand PD-L1 as well as cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA4) have shown impressive clinical outcomes for multiple tumours. However, only a subset of patients achieves durable responses, suggesting that the mechanisms of the immune checkpoint pathways are not completely understood. Here, we report that PD-L1 translocates from the plasma membrane into the nucleus through interactions with components of the endocytosis and nucleocytoplasmic transport pathways, regulated by p300-mediated acetylation and HDAC2-dependent deacetylation of PD-L1. Moreover, PD-L1 deficiency leads to compromised expression of multiple immune-response-related genes. Genetically or pharmacologically modulating PD-L1 acetylation blocks its nuclear translocation, reprograms the expression of immune-response-related genes and, as a consequence, enhances the anti-tumour response to PD-1 blockade. Thus, our results reveal an acetylation-dependent regulation of PD-L1 nuclear localization that governs immune-response gene expression, and thereby advocate targeting PD-L1 translocation to enhance the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade."	1
"31919188"	"The chromatin remodeler Snf2h is essential for oocyte meiotic cell cycle progression.Oocytes are indispensable for mammalian life. Thus, it is important to understand how mature oocytes are generated. As a critical stage of oocytes development, meiosis has been extensively studied, yet how chromatin remodeling contributes to this process is largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor Snf2h (also known as Smarca5) plays a critical role in regulating meiotic cell cycle progression. Females with oocyte-specific depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> are infertile and oocytes lacking <i>Snf2h</i> fail to undergo meiotic resumption. Mechanistically, depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> results in dysregulation of meiosis-related genes, which causes failure of maturation-promoting factor (MPF) activation. ATAC-seq analysis in oocytes revealed that Snf2h regulates transcription of key meiotic genes, such as <i>Prkar2b</i>, by increasing its promoter chromatin accessibility. Thus, our studies not only demonstrate the importance of Snf2h in oocyte meiotic resumption, but also reveal the mechanism underlying how a chromatin remodeling factor can regulate oocyte meiosis."	1
"32675284"	"Caspr2 interacts with type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the developing cerebellum and regulates Purkinje cell morphology.Contactin-associated protein-like 2 (Caspr2) is a neurexin-like protein that has been associated with numerous neurological conditions. However, the specific functional roles that Caspr2 plays in the central nervous system and their underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we report on a functional role for Caspr2 in the developing cerebellum. Using a combination of confocal microscopy, biochemical analyses, and behavioral testing, we show that loss of Caspr2 in the <i>Cntnap2</i><sup>-/-</sup> knockout mouse results in impaired Purkinje cell dendritic development, altered intracellular signaling, and motor coordination deficits. We also find that Caspr2 is highly enriched at synaptic specializations in the cerebellum. Using a proteomics approach, we identify type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP<sub>3</sub>R1) as a specific synaptic interaction partner of the Caspr2 extracellular domain in the molecular layer of the developing cerebellum. The interaction of the Caspr2 extracellular domain with IP<sub>3</sub>R1 inhibits IP<sub>3</sub>R1-mediated changes in cellular morphology. Together, our work defines a mechanism by which Caspr2 controls the development and function of the cerebellum and advances our understanding of how Caspr2 dysfunction might lead to specific brain disorders."	1
