"pmid"	"text"	"hit"
"32499403"	"Dynamic regulation of histone modifications and long-range chromosomal interactions during postmitotic transcriptional reactivation.During mitosis, transcription of genomic DNA is dramatically reduced, before it is reactivated during nuclear reformation in anaphase/telophase. Many aspects of the underlying principles that mediate transcriptional memory and reactivation in the daughter cells remain unclear. Here, we used ChIP-seq on synchronized cells at different stages after mitosis to generate genome-wide maps of histone modifications. Combined with EU-RNA-seq and Hi-C analyses, we found that during prometaphase, promoters, enhancers, and insulators retain H3K4me3 and H3K4me1, while losing H3K27ac. Enhancers globally retaining mitotic H3K4me1 or locally retaining mitotic H3K27ac are associated with cell type-specific genes and their transcription factors for rapid transcriptional activation. As cells exit mitosis, promoters regain H3K27ac, which correlates with transcriptional reactivation. Insulators also gain H3K27ac and CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) in anaphase/telophase. This increase of H3K27ac in anaphase/telophase is required for posttranscriptional activation and may play a role in the establishment of topologically associating domains (TADs). Together, our results suggest that the genome is reorganized in a sequential order, in which histone methylations occur first in prometaphase, histone acetylation, and CTCF in anaphase/telophase, transcription in cytokinesis, and long-range chromatin interactions in early G1. We thus provide insights into the histone modification landscape that allows faithful reestablishment of the transcriptional program and TADs during cell division."	0
"30472190"	"Promoter Distortion and Opening in the RNA Polymerase II Cleft.Transcription initiation requires opening of promoter DNA in the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) pre-initiation complex (PIC), but it remains unclear how this is achieved. Here we report the cryo-electron microscopic (cryo-EM) structure of a yeast PIC that contains underwound, distorted promoter DNA in the closed Pol II cleft. The DNA duplex axis is offset at the upstream edge of the initially melted DNA region (IMR) where DNA opening begins. Unstable IMRs are found in a subset of yeast promoters that we show can still initiate transcription after depletion of the transcription factor (TF) IIH (TFIIH) translocase Ssl2 (XPB in human) from the nucleus in vivo. PIC-induced DNA distortions may thus prime the IMR for melting and may explain how unstable IMRs that are predicted in promoters of Pol I and Pol III can open spontaneously. These results suggest that DNA distortion in the polymerase cleft is a general mechanism that contributes to promoter opening."	0
"30853400"	"FIP200 Claw Domain Binding to p62 Promotes Autophagosome Formation at Ubiquitin Condensates.The autophagy cargo receptor p62 facilitates the condensation of misfolded, ubiquitin-positive proteins and their degradation by autophagy, but the molecular mechanism of p62 signaling to the core autophagy machinery is unclear. Here, we show that disordered residues 326-380 of p62 directly interact with the C-terminal region (CTR) of FIP200. Crystal structure determination shows that the FIP200 CTR contains a dimeric globular domain that we designated the ""Claw"" for its shape. The interaction of p62 with FIP200 is mediated by a positively charged pocket in the Claw, enhanced by p62 phosphorylation, mutually exclusive with the binding of p62 to LC3B, and it promotes degradation of ubiquitinated cargo by autophagy. Furthermore, the recruitment of the FIP200 CTR slows the phase separation of ubiquitinated proteins by p62 in a reconstituted system. Our data provide the molecular basis for a crosstalk between cargo condensation and autophagosome formation."	1
"32783943"	"Acetylation Stabilizes Phosphoglycerate Dehydrogenase by Disrupting the Interaction of E3 Ligase RNF5 to Promote Breast Tumorigenesis.Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) is the first enzyme in the serine synthesis pathway in which it is also the rate-limiting enzyme. It is significantly upregulated in many cancers, especially breast cancer. However, the posttranslational mechanism of PHGDH upregulation in breast cancer is unknown. In this study, we find that RNF5, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is essential for the degradation of PHGDH protein. PHGDH is degraded by RNF5 to prevent the proliferation of breast cancer cells. The acetylation of PHGDH at K58 is able to disrupt the interaction of RNF5-PHGDH and promote the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Tip60 and SIRT2 regulate the reversible acetylation modification of PHGDH in response to glucose alteration. Moreover, PHGDH is significantly upregulated in samples of human breast cancer and is associated with decreased RNF5 expression. This implies a potential therapeutic target through the interference interaction of PHGDH-RNF5 to degrade PHGDH in breast cancer."	1
"31676232"	"PRIMPOL-Mediated Adaptive Response Suppresses Replication Fork Reversal in BRCA-Deficient Cells.Acute treatment with replication-stalling chemotherapeutics causes reversal of replication forks. BRCA proteins protect reversed forks from nucleolytic degradation, and their loss leads to chemosensitivity. Here, we show that fork degradation is no longer detectable in BRCA1-deficient cancer cells exposed to multiple cisplatin doses, mimicking a clinical treatment regimen. This effect depends on increased expression and chromatin loading of PRIMPOL and is regulated by ATR activity. Electron microscopy and single-molecule DNA fiber analyses reveal that PRIMPOL rescues fork degradation by reinitiating DNA synthesis past DNA lesions. PRIMPOL repriming leads to accumulation of ssDNA gaps while suppressing fork reversal. We propose that cells adapt to repeated cisplatin doses by activating PRIMPOL repriming under conditions that would otherwise promote pathological reversed fork degradation. This effect is generalizable to other conditions of impaired fork reversal (e.g., SMARCAL1 loss or PARP inhibition) and suggests a new strategy to modulate cisplatin chemosensitivity by targeting the PRIMPOL pathway."	1
"32451440"	"Extracellular serine controls epidermal stem cell fate and tumour initiation.Tissue stem cells are the cell of origin for many malignancies. Metabolites regulate the balance between self-renewal and differentiation, but whether endogenous metabolic pathways or nutrient availability predispose stem cells towards transformation remains unknown. Here, we address this question in epidermal stem cells (EpdSCs), which are a cell of origin for squamous cell carcinoma. We find that oncogenic EpdSCs are serine auxotrophs whose growth and self-renewal require abundant exogenous serine. When extracellular serine is limited, EpdSCs activate de novo serine synthesis, which in turn stimulates α-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases that remove the repressive histone modification H3K27me3 and activate differentiation programmes. Accordingly, serine starvation or enforced α-ketoglutarate production antagonizes squamous cell carcinoma growth. Conversely, blocking serine synthesis or repressing α-ketoglutarate-driven demethylation facilitates malignant progression. Together, these findings reveal that extracellular serine is a critical determinant of EpdSC fate and provide insight into how nutrient availability is integrated with stem cell fate decisions during tumour initiation."	0
"32679078"	"RAD51AP1 Is an Essential Mediator of Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres."	0
"31492635"	"PTEN Suppresses Glycolysis by Dephosphorylating and Inhibiting Autophosphorylated PGK1.The PTEN tumor suppressor is frequently mutated or deleted in cancer and regulates glucose metabolism through the PI3K-AKT pathway. However, whether PTEN directly regulates glycolysis in tumor cells is unclear. We demonstrate here that PTEN directly interacts with phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1). PGK1 functions not only as a glycolytic enzyme but also as a protein kinase intermolecularly autophosphorylating itself at Y324 for activation. The protein phosphatase activity of PTEN dephosphorylates and inhibits autophosphorylated PGK1, thereby inhibiting glycolysis, ATP production, and brain tumor cell proliferation. In addition, knockin expression of a PGK1 Y324F mutant inhibits brain tumor formation. Analyses of human glioblastoma specimens reveals that PGK1 Y324 phosphorylation levels inversely correlate with PTEN expression status and are positively associated with poor prognosis in glioblastoma patients. This work highlights the instrumental role of PGK1 autophosphorylation in its activation and PTEN protein phosphatase activity in governing glycolysis and tumorigenesis."	1
"31968250"	"Vitamin D Receptor Controls Cell Stemness in Acute Myeloid Leukemia and in Normal Bone Marrow.Vitamin D (VD) is a known differentiating agent, but the role of VD receptor (VDR) is still incompletely described in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), whose treatment is based mostly on antimitotic chemotherapy. Here, we present an unexpected role of VDR in normal hematopoiesis and in leukemogenesis. Limited VDR expression is associated with impaired myeloid progenitor differentiation and is a new prognostic factor in AML. In mice, the lack of Vdr results in increased numbers of hematopoietic and leukemia stem cells and quiescent hematopoietic stem cells. In addition, malignant transformation of Vdr<sup>-/-</sup> cells results in myeloid differentiation block and increases self-renewal. Vdr promoter is methylated in AML as in CD34<sup>+</sup> cells, and demethylating agents induce VDR expression. Association of VDR agonists with hypomethylating agents promotes leukemia stem cell exhaustion and decreases tumor burden in AML mouse models. Thus, Vdr functions as a regulator of stem cell homeostasis and leukemic propagation."	0
"32375042"	"The Parkinson's Disease Protein LRRK2 Interacts with the GARP Complex to Promote Retrograde Transport to the trans-Golgi Network.Mutations in Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) cause Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the precise function of LRRK2 remains unclear. We report an interaction between LRRK2 and VPS52, a subunit of the Golgi-associated retrograde protein (GARP) complex that identifies a function of LRRK2 in regulating membrane fusion at the trans-Golgi network (TGN). At the TGN, LRRK2 further interacts with the Golgi SNAREs VAMP4 and Syntaxin-6 and acts as a scaffolding platform that stabilizes the GARP-SNAREs complex formation. Therefore, LRRK2 influences both retrograde and post-Golgi trafficking pathways in a manner dependent on its GTP binding and kinase activity. This action is exaggerated by mutations associated with Parkinson's disease and can be blocked by kinase inhibitors. Disruption of GARP sensitizes dopamine neurons to mutant LRRK2 toxicity in C. elegans, showing that these pathways are interlinked in vivo and suggesting a link in PD."	1
"31227231"	"HCF-1 Regulates De Novo Lipogenesis through a Nutrient-Sensitive Complex with ChREBP.Carbohydrate response element binding protein (ChREBP) is a key transcriptional regulator of de novo lipogenesis (DNL) in response to carbohydrates and in hepatic steatosis. Mechanisms underlying nutrient modulation of ChREBP are under active investigation. Here we identify host cell factor 1 (HCF-1) as a previously unknown ChREBP-interacting protein that is enriched in liver biopsies of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) patients. Biochemical and genetic studies show that HCF-1 is O-GlcNAcylated in response to glucose as a prerequisite for its binding to ChREBP and subsequent recruitment of OGT, ChREBP O-GlcNAcylation, and activation. The HCF-1:ChREBP complex resides at lipogenic gene promoters, where HCF-1 regulates H3K4 trimethylation to prime recruitment of the Jumonji C domain-containing histone demethylase PHF2 for epigenetic activation of these promoters. Overall, these findings define HCF-1's interaction with ChREBP as a previously unappreciated mechanism whereby glucose signals are both relayed to ChREBP and transmitted for epigenetic regulation of lipogenic genes."	1
"32616651"	"The autophagy protein Ambra1 regulates gene expression by supporting novel transcriptional complexes.Ambra1 is considered an autophagy and trafficking protein with roles in neurogenesis and cancer cell invasion. Here, we report that Ambra1 also localizes to the nucleus of cancer cells, where it has a novel nuclear scaffolding function that controls gene expression. Using biochemical fractionation and proteomics, we found that Ambra1 binds to multiple classes of proteins in the nucleus, including nuclear pore proteins, adaptor proteins such as FAK and Akap8, chromatin-modifying proteins, and transcriptional regulators like Brg1 and Atf2. We identified biologically important genes, such as <i>Angpt1</i>, <i>Tgfb2</i>, <i>Tgfb3</i>, <i>Itga8</i>, and <i>Itgb7</i>, whose transcription is regulated by Ambra1-scaffolded complexes, likely by altering histone modifications and Atf2 activity. Therefore, in addition to its recognized roles in autophagy and trafficking, Ambra1 scaffolds protein complexes at chromatin, regulating transcriptional signaling in the nucleus. This novel function for Ambra1, and the specific genes impacted, may help to explain the wider role of Ambra1 in cancer cell biology."	1
"32049016"	"Discovery of O-Linked Carbohydrate on HIV-1 Envelope and Its Role in Shielding against One Category of Broadly Neutralizing Antibodies.Approximately 50% of the mass of the Envelope (Env) glycoprotein surface subunit (gp120) of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is composed of N-linked carbohydrate. Until now, the dogma has been that HIV-1 lacks O-linked carbohydrate on Env. Here we show that a subset of patient-derived HIV-1 isolates contain O-linked carbohydrate on the variable 1 (V1) domain of Env gp120. We demonstrate the presence of this O-glycosylation both on virions and on gp120 expressed as a secreted protein. Further, we establish that these O-linked glycans can confer a more than 1,000-fold decrease in neutralization sensitivity (IC<sub>50</sub>) to V3-glycan broadly neutralizing antibodies. These findings uncover a structural modification to the HIV-1 Env and suggest a functional role in promoting viral escape from one category of broadly neutralizing antibodies."	0
"32049023"	"SENP3 Suppresses Osteoclastogenesis by De-conjugating SUMO2/3 from IRF8 in Bone Marrow-Derived Monocytes.Bone metabolism depends on the balance between osteoclast-driven bone resorption and osteoblast-mediated bone formation. Diseases like osteoporosis are characterized by increased bone destruction due to partially enhanced osteoclastogenesis. Here, we report that the post-translational SUMO modification is critical for regulating osteoclastogenesis. The expression of the SUMO-specific protease SENP3 is downregulated in osteoclast precursors during osteoclast differentiation. Mice with SENP3 deficiency in bone marrow-derived monocytes (BMDMs) exhibit more severe bone loss due to over-activation of osteoclasts after ovariectomy. Deleting SENP3 in BMDMs promotes osteoclast differentiation. Mechanistically, loss of SENP3 increases interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) SUMO3 modification at the K310 amino acid site, which upregulates expression of the nuclear factor of activated T cell c1 (NFATc1) and osteoclastogenesis. In summary, IRF8 de-SUMO modification mediated by SENP3 suppresses osteoclast differentiation and suggests strategies to treat bone loss diseases."	1
"32049007"	"Phenformin Inhibits Hedgehog-Dependent Tumor Growth through a Complex I-Independent Redox/Corepressor Module.The antidiabetic drug phenformin displays potent anticancer activity in different tumors, but its mechanism of action remains elusive. Using Shh medulloblastoma as model, we show here that at clinically relevant concentrations, phenformin elicits a significant therapeutic effect through a redox-dependent but complex I-independent mechanism. Phenformin inhibits mitochondrial glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (mGPD), a component of the glycerophosphate shuttle, and causes elevations of intracellular NADH content. Inhibition of mGPD mimics phenformin action and promotes an association between corepressor CtBP2 and Gli1, thereby inhibiting Hh transcriptional output and tumor growth. Because ablation of CtBP2 abrogates the therapeutic effect of phenformin in mice, these data illustrate a biguanide-mediated redox/corepressor interplay, which may represent a relevant target for tumor therapy."	1
"32554467"	"The RAS-interacting chaperone UNC119 drives the RASSF6-MDM2-p53 axis and antagonizes RAS-mediated malignant transformation.The gene encoding the proto-oncogene GTPase RAS is frequently mutated in human cancers. Mutated RAS proteins trigger antiapoptotic and cell-proliferative signals and lead to oncogenesis. However, RAS also induces apoptosis and senescence, which may contribute to the eradication of cells with RAS mutations. We previously reported that Ras association domain family member 6 (RASSF6) binds MDM2 and stabilizes the tumor suppressor p53 and that the active form of KRAS promotes the interaction between RASSF6 and MDM2. We also reported that Unc-119 lipid-binding chaperone (UNC119A), a chaperone of myristoylated proteins, interacts with RASSF6 and regulates RASSF6-mediated apoptosis. In this study, using several human cancer cell lines, quantitative RT-PCR, RNAi-based gene silencing, and immunoprecipitation/-fluorescence and cell biology assays, we report that UNC119A interacts with the active form of KRAS and that the C-terminal modification of KRAS is required for this interaction. We also noted that the hydrophobic pocket of UNC119A, which binds the myristoylated peptides, is not involved in the interaction. We observed that UNC119A promotes the binding of KRAS to RASSF6, enhances the interaction between RASSF6 and MDM2, and induces apoptosis. Conversely, <i>UNC119A</i> silencing promoted soft-agar colony formation, migration, and invasiveness in KRAS-mutated cancer cells. We conclude that UNC119A promotes KRAS-mediated p53-dependent apoptosis via RASSF6 and may play a tumor-suppressive role in cells with KRAS mutations."	1
"31956073"	"Integrin αvβ5 Internalizes Zika Virus during Neural Stem Cells Infection and Provides a Promising Target for Antiviral Therapy.We perform a CRISPR-Cas9 genome-wide screen in glioblastoma stem cells and identify integrin αvβ5 as an internalization factor for Zika virus (ZIKV). Expression of αvβ5 is correlated with ZIKV susceptibility in various cells and tropism in developing human cerebral cortex. A blocking antibody against integrin αvβ5, but not αvβ3, efficiently inhibits ZIKV infection. ZIKV binds to cells but fails to internalize when treated with integrin αvβ5-blocking antibody. αvβ5 directly binds to ZIKV virions and activates focal adhesion kinase, which is required for ZIKV infection. Finally, αvβ5 blocking antibody or two inhibitors, SB273005 and cilengitide, reduces ZIKV infection and alleviates ZIKV-induced pathology in human neural stem cells and in mouse brain. Altogether, our findings identify integrin αvβ5 as an internalization factor for ZIKV, providing a promising therapeutic target, as well as two drug candidates for prophylactic use or treatments for ZIKV infections."	0
"32640217"	"Extracellular Granzyme A Promotes Colorectal Cancer Development by Enhancing Gut Inflammation.If not properly regulated, the inflammatory immune response can promote carcinogenesis, as evident in colorectal cancer (CRC). Aiming to gain mechanistic insight into the link between inflammation and CRC, we perform transcriptomics analysis of human CRC, identifying a strong correlation between expression of the serine protease granzyme A (GzmA) and inflammation. In a dextran sodium sulfate and azoxymethane (DSS/AOM) mouse model, deficiency and pharmacological inhibition of extracellular GzmA both attenuate gut inflammation and prevent CRC development, including the initial steps of cell transformation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, extracellular GzmA induces NF-κB-dependent IL-6 production in macrophages, which in turn promotes STAT3 activation in cultured CRC cells. Accordingly, colon tissues from DSS/AOM-treated, GzmA-deficient animals present reduced levels of pSTAT3. By identifying GzmA as a proinflammatory protease that promotes CRC development, these findings provide information on mechanisms that link immune cell infiltration to cancer progression and present GzmA as a therapeutic target for CRC."	1
"32375051"	"Srebf1 Controls Midbrain Dopaminergic Neurogenesis.Liver X receptors (LXRs) and their ligands are potent regulators of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurogenesis and differentiation. However, the molecular mechanisms by which LXRs control these functions remain to be elucidated. Here, we perform a combined transcriptome and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis of midbrain cells after LXR activation, followed by bioinformatic analysis to elucidate the transcriptional networks controlling mDA neurogenesis. Our results identify the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1) as part of a cluster of proneural transcription factors in radial glia and as a regulator of transcription factors controlling mDA neurogenesis, such as Foxa2. Moreover, loss- and gain-of-function experiments in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that Srebf1 is both required and sufficient for mDA neurogenesis. Our data, thus, identify Srebf1 as a central player in mDA neurogenesis."	1
"31474573"	"Polyamines Control eIF5A Hypusination, TFEB Translation, and Autophagy to Reverse B Cell Senescence.Failure to make adaptive immune responses is a hallmark of aging. Reduced B cell function leads to poor vaccination efficacy and a high prevalence of infections in the elderly. Here we show that reduced autophagy is a central molecular mechanism underlying immune senescence. Autophagy levels are specifically reduced in mature lymphocytes, leading to compromised memory B cell responses in old individuals. Spermidine, an endogenous polyamine metabolite, induces autophagy in vivo and rejuvenates memory B cell responses. Mechanistically, spermidine post-translationally modifies the translation factor eIF5A, which is essential for the synthesis of the autophagy transcription factor TFEB. Spermidine is depleted in the elderly, leading to reduced TFEB expression and autophagy. Spermidine supplementation restored this pathway and improved the responses of old human B cells. Taken together, our results reveal an unexpected autophagy regulatory mechanism mediated by eIF5A at the translational level, which can be harnessed to reverse immune senescence in humans."	1
"31230816"	"LINE-1 Evasion of Epigenetic Repression in Humans.Epigenetic silencing defends against LINE-1 (L1) retrotransposition in mammalian cells. However, the mechanisms that repress young L1 families and how L1 escapes to cause somatic genome mosaicism in the brain remain unclear. Here we report that a conserved Yin Yang 1 (YY1) transcription factor binding site mediates L1 promoter DNA methylation in pluripotent and differentiated cells. By analyzing 24 hippocampal neurons with three distinct single-cell genomic approaches, we characterized and validated a somatic L1 insertion bearing a 3' transduction. The source (donor) L1 for this insertion was slightly 5' truncated, lacked the YY1 binding site, and was highly mobile when tested in vitro. Locus-specific bisulfite sequencing revealed that the donor L1 and other young L1s with mutated YY1 binding sites were hypomethylated in embryonic stem cells, during neurodifferentiation, and in liver and brain tissue. These results explain how L1 can evade repression and retrotranspose in the human body."	0
"32846118"	"Antagonistic Interaction between Auxin and SA Signaling Pathways Regulates Bacterial Infection through Lateral Root in Arabidopsis.Pathogen entry into host tissues is a critical and first step in infections. In plants, the lateral roots (LRs) are a potential entry and colonization site for pathogens. Here, using a GFP-labeled pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato strain DC3000 (Pto DC3000), we observe that virulent Pto DC3000 invades plants through emerged LRs in Arabidopsis. Pto DC3000 strongly induced LR formation, a process that was dependent on the AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR7 (ARF7)/ARF19-LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES-DOMAIN (LBD) regulatory module. We show that salicylic acid (SA) represses LR formation, and several mutants defective in SA signaling are also involved in Pto DC3000-induced LR development. Significantly, ARF7, a well-documented positive regulator of LR development, directly represses the transcription of PR1 and PR2 to promote LR development. This study indicates that ARF7-mediated auxin signaling antagonizes with SA signaling to control bacterial infection through the regulation of LR development."	1
"31442426"	"Proximity RNA Labeling by APEX-Seq Reveals the Organization of Translation Initiation Complexes and Repressive RNA Granules.Diverse ribonucleoprotein complexes control mRNA processing, translation, and decay. Transcripts in these complexes localize to specific regions of the cell and can condense into non-membrane-bound structures such as stress granules. It has proven challenging to map the RNA composition of these large and dynamic structures, however. We therefore developed an RNA proximity labeling technique, APEX-seq, which uses the ascorbate peroxidase APEX2 to probe the spatial organization of the transcriptome. We show that APEX-seq can resolve the localization of RNAs within the cell and determine their enrichment or depletion near key RNA-binding proteins. Matching the spatial transcriptome, as revealed by APEX-seq, with the spatial proteome determined by APEX-mass spectrometry (APEX-MS), obtained precisely in parallel, provides new insights into the organization of translation initiation complexes on active mRNAs and unanticipated complexity in stress granule composition. Our novel technique allows a powerful and general approach to explore the spatial environment of macromolecules."	0
"31023582"	"(p)ppGpp Regulates a Bacterial Nucleosidase by an Allosteric Two-Domain Switch.The stringent response alarmones pppGpp and ppGpp are essential for rapid adaption of bacterial physiology to changes in the environment. In Escherichia coli, the nucleosidase PpnN (YgdH) regulates purine homeostasis by cleaving nucleoside monophosphates and specifically binds (p)ppGpp. Here, we show that (p)ppGpp stimulates the catalytic activity of PpnN both in vitro and in vivo causing accumulation of several types of nucleobases during stress. The structure of PpnN reveals a tetramer with allosteric (p)ppGpp binding sites located between subunits. pppGpp binding triggers a large conformational change that shifts the two terminal domains to expose the active site, providing a structural rationale for the stimulatory effect. We find that PpnN increases fitness and adjusts cellular tolerance to antibiotics and propose a model in which nucleotide levels can rapidly be adjusted during stress by simultaneous inhibition of biosynthesis and stimulation of degradation, thus achieving a balanced physiological response to constantly changing environments."	0
"32937117"	"Adipocyte Reprogramming by the Transcriptional Coregulator GPS2 Impacts Beta Cell Insulin Secretion.Glucose homeostasis is maintained through organ crosstalk that regulates secretion of insulin to keep blood glucose levels within a physiological range. In type 2 diabetes, this coordinated response is altered, leading to a deregulation of beta cell function and inadequate insulin secretion. Reprogramming of white adipose tissue has a central role in this deregulation, but the critical regulatory components remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that expression of the transcriptional coregulator GPS2 in white adipose tissue is correlated with insulin secretion rate in humans. The causality of this relationship is confirmed using adipocyte-specific GPS2 knockout mice, in which inappropriate secretion of insulin promotes glucose intolerance. This phenotype is driven by adipose-tissue-secreted factors, which cause increased pancreatic islet inflammation and impaired beta cell function. Thus, our study suggests that, in mice and in humans, GPS2 controls the reprogramming of white adipocytes to influence pancreatic islet function and insulin secretion."	0
"30449725"	"A B-Cell-Specific Enhancer Orchestrates Nuclear Architecture to Generate a Diverse Antigen Receptor Repertoire.The genome is organized into topologically associated domains (TADs) that enclose smaller subTADs. Here, we identify and characterize an enhancer that is located in the middle of the V gene region of the immunoglobulin kappa light chain (Igκ) locus that becomes active preceding the stage at which this locus undergoes V(D)J recombination. This enhancer is a hub of long-range chromatin interactions connecting subTADs in the V gene region with the recombination center at the J genes. Deletion of this element results in a highly altered long-range chromatin interaction pattern across the locus and, importantly, affects individual V gene utilization locus-wide. These results indicate the existence of an enhancer-dependent framework in the Igκ locus and further suggest that the composition of the diverse antibody repertoire is regulated in a subTAD-specific manner. This enhancer thus plays a structural role in orchestrating the proper folding of the Igκ locus in preparation for V(D)J recombination."	0
"32460021"	"Detection of Deleterious On-Target Effects after HDR-Mediated CRISPR Editing.CRISPR genome editing is a promising tool for translational research but can cause undesired editing outcomes, both on target at the edited locus and off target at other genomic loci. Here, we investigate the occurrence of deleterious on-target effects (OnTEs) in human stem cells after insertion of disease-related mutations by homology-directed repair (HDR) and gene editing using non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). We identify large, mono-allelic genomic deletions and loss-of-heterozygosity escaping standard quality controls in up to 40% of edited clones. To reliably detect such events, we describe simple, low-cost, and broadly applicable quantitative genotyping PCR (qgPCR) and single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping-based tools and suggest their usage as additional quality controls after editing. This will help to ensure the integrity of edited loci and increase the reliability of CRISPR editing."	0
"31914402"	"TRIM32/USP11 Balances ARID1A Stability and the Oncogenic/Tumor-Suppressive Status of Squamous Cell Carcinoma.Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is an aggressive epithelial malignancy, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying SCC development are elusive. ARID1A is frequently mutated in various cancer types, but both mutation rates and expression levels of ARID1A are ubiquitously low in SCCs. Here, we reveal that excessive protein degradation mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) contributes to the loss of ARID1A expression in SCC. We identify that the E3 ligase TRIM32 and the deubiquitinase USP11 play key roles in controlling ARID1A stability. TRIM32 depletion inhibits SCC cell proliferation, metastasis, and chemoresistance by stabilizing ARID1A, while USP11 depletion promotes SCC development by promoting ARID1A degradation. We show that syndecan-2 (SDC2) is the downstream target of both ARID1A and USP11 and that SDC2 depletion abolishes the oncogenic function of ARID1A loss. In summary, our data reveal UPS-mediated protein degradation as a mechanism underlying ARID1A loss and propose an important role for the TRIM32/USP11-ARID1A-SDC2 axis in SCC."	1
"30853402"	"The Cargo Receptor NDP52 Initiates Selective Autophagy by Recruiting the ULK Complex to Cytosol-Invading Bacteria.Xenophagy, a selective autophagy pathway that protects the cytosol against bacterial invasion, relies on cargo receptors that juxtapose bacteria and phagophore membranes. Whether phagophores are recruited from a constitutive pool or are generated de novo at prospective cargo remains unknown. Phagophore formation in situ would require recruitment of the upstream autophagy machinery to prospective cargo. Here, we show that, essential for anti-bacterial autophagy, the cargo receptor NDP52 forms a trimeric complex with FIP200 and SINTBAD/NAP1, which are subunits of the autophagy-initiating ULK and the TBK1 kinase complex, respectively. FIP200 and SINTBAD/NAP1 are each recruited independently to bacteria via NDP52, as revealed by selective point mutations in their respective binding sites, but only in their combined presence does xenophagy proceed. Such recruitment of the upstream autophagy machinery by NDP52 reveals how detection of cargo-associated ""eat me"" signals, induction of autophagy, and juxtaposition of cargo and phagophores are integrated in higher eukaryotes."	1
"32518159"	"The yeast exoribonuclease Xrn1 and associated factors modulate RNA polymerase II processivity in 5' and 3' gene regions.mRNA levels are determined by the balance between mRNA synthesis and decay. Protein factors that mediate both processes, including the 5'-3' exonuclease Xrn1, are responsible for a cross-talk between the two processes that buffers steady-state mRNA levels. However, the roles of these proteins in transcription remain elusive and controversial. Applying native elongating transcript sequencing (NET-seq) to yeast cells, we show that Xrn1 functions mainly as a transcriptional activator and that its disruption manifests as a reduction of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) occupancy downstream of transcription start sites. By combining our sequencing data and mathematical modeling of transcription, we found that Xrn1 modulates transcription initiation and elongation of its target genes. Furthermore, Pol II occupancy markedly increased near cleavage and polyadenylation sites in <i>xrn1</i>Δ cells, whereas its activity decreased, a characteristic feature of backtracked Pol II. We also provide indirect evidence that Xrn1 is involved in transcription termination downstream of polyadenylation sites. We noted that two additional decay factors, Dhh1 and Lsm1, seem to function similarly to Xrn1 in transcription, perhaps as a complex, and that the decay factors Ccr4 and Rpb4 also perturb transcription in other ways. Interestingly, the decay factors could differentiate between SAGA- and TFIID-dominated promoters. These two classes of genes responded differently to <i>XRN1</i> deletion in mRNA synthesis and were differentially regulated by mRNA decay pathways, raising the possibility that one distinction between these two gene classes lies in the mechanisms that balance mRNA synthesis with mRNA decay."	0
"31447390"	"SLX4IP Antagonizes Promiscuous BLM Activity during ALT Maintenance.Cancer cells acquire unlimited proliferative capacity by either re-expressing telomerase or inducing alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT), which relies on telomere recombination. Here, we show that ALT recombination requires coordinate regulation of the SMX and BTR complexes to ensure the appropriate balance of resolution and dissolution activities at recombining telomeres. Critical to this control is SLX4IP, which accumulates at ALT telomeres and interacts with SLX4, XPF, and BLM. Loss of SLX4IP increases ALT-related phenotypes, which is incompatible with cell growth following concomitant loss of SLX4. Inactivation of BLM is sufficient to rescue telomere aggregation and the synthetic growth defect in this context, suggesting that SLX4IP favors SMX-dependent resolution by antagonizing promiscuous BLM activity during ALT recombination. Finally, we show that SLX4IP is inactivated in a subset of ALT-positive osteosarcomas. Collectively, our findings uncover an SLX4IP-dependent regulatory mechanism critical for telomere maintenance in ALT cancer cells."	0
"31914396"	"Molecular Mechanism of RNA Recognition by Zinc-Finger Antiviral Protein.Zinc-finger antiviral protein (ZAP) is a host antiviral factor that specifically restricts a wide range of viruses. ZAP selectively binds to CG-dinucleotide-enriched RNA sequences and recruits multiple RNA degradation machines to degrade target viral RNA. However, the molecular mechanism and structural basis for ZAP recognition of specific RNA are not clear. Here, we report the crystal structure of the ZAP N-terminal domain bound to a CG-rich single-stranded RNA, providing the molecular basis for its specific recognition of a CG dinucleotide and additional guanine and cytosine. The four zinc fingers of ZAP adopt a unique architecture and form extensive interactions with RNA. Mutations of both protein and RNA at the RNA-ZAP interacting surface reduce the in vitro binding affinity and cellular antiviral activity. This work reveals the molecular mechanism of ZAP recognition of specific target RNA and also provides insights into the mechanism by which ZAP coordinates downstream RNA degradation processes."	0
"32668254"	"Antagonistic Activities of Vegfr3/Flt4 and Notch1b Fine-tune Mechanosensitive Signaling during Zebrafish Cardiac Valvulogenesis.The formation of cardiac valves depends on mechanical forces exerted by blood flow. Endocardial cells lining the interior of the heart are sensitive to these stimuli and respond by rearranging into luminal cells subjected to shear stress and abluminal cells not exposed to it. The mechanisms by which endocardial cells sense these dynamic biomechanical stimuli and how they evoke different cellular responses are largely unknown. Here, we show that blood flow activates two parallel mechanosensitive pathways, one mediated by Notch and the other by Klf2a. Both pathways negatively regulate the angiogenesis receptor Vegfr3/Flt4, which becomes restricted to abluminal endocardial cells. Its loss disrupts valve morphogenesis and results in the occurrence of Notch signaling within abluminal endocardial cells. Our work explains how antagonistic activities by Vegfr3/Flt4 on the abluminal side and by Notch on the luminal side shape cardiac valve leaflets by triggering unique differences in the fates of endocardial cells."	1
"32492424"	"Critical Roles of Translation Initiation and RNA Uridylation in Endogenous Retroviral Expression and Neural Differentiation in Pluripotent Stem Cells.Previous studies have suggested that the loss of the translation initiation factor eIF4G1 homolog NAT1 induces excessive self-renewability of naive pluripotent stem cells (PSCs); yet the role of NAT1 in the self-renewal and differentiation of primed PSCs is still unclear. Here, we generate a conditional knockout of NAT1 in primed PSCs and use the cells for the functional analyses of NAT1. Our results show that NAT1 is required for the self-renewal and neural differentiation of primed PSCs. In contrast, NAT1 deficiency in naive pluripotency attenuates the differentiation to all cell types. We also find that NAT1 is involved in efficient protein expression of an RNA uridyltransferase, TUT7. TUT7 is involved in the neural differentiation of primed PSCs via the regulation of human endogenous retrovirus accumulation. These data demonstrate the essential roles of NAT1 and TUT7 in the precise transition of stem cell fate."	1
"32348751"	"Pbrm1 Steers Mesenchymal Stromal Cell Osteolineage Differentiation by Integrating PBAF-Dependent Chromatin Remodeling and BMP/TGF-β Signaling.Bone morphogenic protein (BMP)/transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling determines mesenchymal-stromal-cell (MSC) osteolineage commitment and tissue identity. However, molecular integration of developmental signaling with MSC-intrinsic chromatin regulation remains incompletely understood. SWI/SNF-(BAF) is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler implicated in multi-cellular development. We show that BMPs and long-term osteogenic signals in MSCs selectively induce expression of polybromo BAF (PBAF) components Pbrm1, Arid2, and Brd7. Loss of Pbrm1/Arid2/Brd7 profoundly impairs osteolineage gene expression and osteogenesis without compromising adipogenesis. Pbrm1 loss attenuates MSC in vivo ossification. Mechanistically, Pbrm1/PBAF deficiency impairs Smad1/5/8 activation through locus-specific epi-genomic remodeling, involving Pbrm1 bromodomains, along with transcriptional downregulation of Bmpr/TgfβrII affecting BMP-early-responsive gene expression. Gain of function of BmprIβ, TgfβrII in PBAF-deficient MSCs partly restores Smad1/5/8 activation and osteogenesis. Pbrm1 loss further affects hematopoietic stem and progenitor activity through non-cell-autonomous regulation of microenvironment and niche-factor expression. Together, these findings reveal a link illustrating epi-genomic feedforward control of BMP/TGF-β signaling to transcriptional and cellular plasticity in the mesenchymal microenvironment and account for stromal-SWI/SNF in hematopoiesis."	1
"32610126"	"Counter Regulation of Spic by NF-κB and STAT Signaling Controls Inflammation and Iron Metabolism in Macrophages.Activated macrophages must carefully calibrate their inflammatory responses to balance efficient pathogen control with inflammation-mediated tissue damage, but the molecular underpinnings of this ""balancing act"" remain unclear. Using genetically engineered mouse models and primary macrophage cultures, we show that Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling induces the expression of the transcription factor Spic selectively in patrolling monocytes and tissue macrophages by a nuclear factor κB (NF-κB)-dependent mechanism. Functionally, Spic downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines and promotes iron efflux by regulating ferroportin expression in activated macrophages. Notably, interferon-gamma blocks Spic expression in a STAT1-dependent manner. High levels of interferon-gamma are indicative of ongoing infection, and in its absence, activated macrophages appear to engage a ""default"" Spic-dependent anti-inflammatory pathway. We also provide evidence for the engagement of this pathway in sterile inflammation. Taken together, our findings uncover a pathway wherein counter-regulation of Spic by NF-κB and STATs attune inflammatory responses and iron metabolism in macrophages."	1
"30901564"	"MST1 Negatively Regulates TNFα-Induced NF-κB Signaling through Modulating LUBAC Activity.The nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathway plays a central role in inflammatory and immune responses, with aberrant activation of NF-κB signaling being implicated in various human disorders. Here, we show that mammalian ste20-like kinase 1 (MST1) is a previously unrecognized component of the tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) receptor 1 signaling complex (TNF-RSC) and attenuates TNFα-induced NF-κB signaling. Genetic ablation of MST1 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and bone marrow-derived macrophages potentiated the TNFα-induced increase in IκB kinase (IKK) activity, as well as the expression of NF-κB target genes. TNFα induced the recruitment of MST1 to TNF-RSC and its interaction with HOIP, the catalytic component of the E3 ligase linear ubiquitin assembly complex (LUBAC). Furthermore, MST1 activated in response to TNFα stimulation mediates the phosphorylation of HOIP and thereby inhibited LUBAC-dependent linear ubiquitination of NEMO/IKKγ. Together, our findings suggest that MST1 negatively regulates TNFα-induced NF-κB signaling by targeting LUBAC."	1
"32521277"	"Heterogeneous Habenular Neuronal Ensembles during Selection of Defensive Behaviors.Optimal selection of threat-driven defensive behaviors is paramount to an animal's survival. The lateral habenula (LHb) is a key neuronal hub coordinating behavioral responses to aversive stimuli. Yet, how individual LHb neurons represent defensive behaviors in response to threats remains unknown. Here, we show that in mice, a visual threat promotes distinct defensive behaviors, namely runaway (escape) and action-locking (immobile-like). Fiber photometry of bulk LHb neuronal activity in behaving animals reveals an increase and a decrease in calcium signal time-locked with runaway and action-locking, respectively. Imaging single-cell calcium dynamics across distinct threat-driven behaviors identify independently active LHb neuronal clusters. These clusters participate during specific time epochs of defensive behaviors. Decoding analysis of this neuronal activity reveals that some LHb clusters either predict the upcoming selection of the defensive action or represent the selected action. Thus, heterogeneous neuronal clusters in LHb predict or reflect the selection of distinct threat-driven defensive behaviors."	0
"31831627"	"Induction of AP-1 by YAP/TAZ contributes to cell proliferation and organ growth.Yes-associated protein (YAP) and its homolog transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) are key effectors of the Hippo pathway to control cell growth and organ size, of which dysregulation yields to tumorigenesis or hypertrophy. Upon activation, YAP/TAZ translocate into the nucleus and bind to TEAD transcription factors to promote transcriptional programs for proliferation or cell specification. Immediate early genes, represented by AP-1 complex, are rapidly induced and control later-phase transcriptional program to play key roles in tumorigenesis and organ maintenance. Here, we report that YAP/TAZ directly promote <i>FOS</i> transcription that in turn contributes to the biological function of YAP/TAZ. YAP/TAZ bind to the promoter region of <i>FOS</i> to stimulate its transcription. Deletion of YAP/TAZ blocks the induction of immediate early genes in response to mitogenic stimuli. <i>FOS</i> induction contributes to expression of YAP/TAZ downstream target genes. Genetic deletion or chemical inhibition of AP-1 suppresses growth of YAP-driven cancer cells, such as <i>Lats1/2</i>-deficient cancer cells as well as Gα<sub>q/11</sub> mutated uveal melanoma. Furthermore, AP-1 inhibition almost completely abrogates the hepatomegaly induced by YAP overexpression. Our findings reveal a feed-forward interplay between immediate early transcription of AP-1 and Hippo pathway function."	1
"32433972"	"Predicting mRNA Abundance Directly from Genomic Sequence Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks.Algorithms that accurately predict gene structure from primary sequence alone were transformative for annotating the human genome. Can we also predict the expression levels of genes based solely on genome sequence? Here, we sought to apply deep convolutional neural networks toward that goal. Surprisingly, a model that includes only promoter sequences and features associated with mRNA stability explains 59% and 71% of variation in steady-state mRNA levels in human and mouse, respectively. This model, termed Xpresso, more than doubles the accuracy of alternative sequence-based models and isolates rules as predictive as models relying on chromatic immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) data. Xpresso recapitulates genome-wide patterns of transcriptional activity, and its residuals can be used to quantify the influence of enhancers, heterochromatic domains, and microRNAs. Model interpretation reveals that promoter-proximal CpG dinucleotides strongly predict transcriptional activity. Looking forward, we propose cell-type-specific gene-expression predictions based solely on primary sequences as a grand challenge for the field."	0
"32101747"	"Class IIa Histone Deacetylases Drive Toll-like Receptor-Inducible Glycolysis and Macrophage Inflammatory Responses via Pyruvate Kinase M2.Histone deacetylases (HDACs) drive innate immune cell-mediated inflammation. Here we identify class IIa HDACs as key molecular links between Toll-like receptor (TLR)-inducible aerobic glycolysis and macrophage inflammatory responses. A proteomic screen identified the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M isoform 2 (Pkm2) as a partner of proinflammatory Hdac7 in murine macrophages. Myeloid-specific Hdac7 overexpression in transgenic mice amplifies lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-inducible lactate and promotes a glycolysis-associated inflammatory signature. Conversely, pharmacological or genetic targeting of Hdac7 and other class IIa HDACs attenuates LPS-inducible glycolysis and accompanying inflammatory responses in macrophages. We show that an Hdac7-Pkm2 complex acts as an immunometabolism signaling hub, whereby Pkm2 deacetylation at lysine 433 licenses its proinflammatory functions. Disrupting this complex suppresses inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Class IIa HDACs are thus pivotal intermediates connecting TLR-inducible glycolysis to inflammation via Pkm2."	1
"31831628"	"Muscle-derived Dpp regulates feeding initiation via endocrine modulation of brain dopamine biosynthesis.In animals, the brain regulates feeding behavior in response to local energy demands of peripheral tissues, which secrete orexigenic and anorexigenic hormones. Although skeletal muscle is a key peripheral tissue, it remains unknown whether muscle-secreted hormones regulate feeding. In <i>Drosophila</i>, we found that <i>decapentaplegic</i> (<i>dpp</i>), the homolog of human bone morphogenetic proteins BMP2 and BMP4, is a muscle-secreted factor (a myokine) that is induced by nutrient sensing and that circulates and signals to the brain. Muscle-restricted dpp RNAi promotes foraging and feeding initiation, whereas <i>dpp</i> overexpression reduces it. This regulation of feeding by muscle-derived Dpp stems from modulation of brain <i>tyrosine hydroxylase</i> (<i>TH</i>) expression and dopamine biosynthesis. Consistently, Dpp receptor signaling in dopaminergic neurons regulates <i>TH</i> expression and feeding initiation via the downstream transcriptional repressor Schnurri. Moreover, pharmacologic modulation of TH activity rescues the changes in feeding initiation due to modulation of <i>dpp</i> expression in muscle. These findings indicate that muscle-to-brain endocrine signaling mediated by the myokine Dpp regulates feeding behavior."	0
"32611613"	"RNA polymerase III transcription as a disease factor.RNA polymerase (Pol) III is responsible for transcription of different noncoding genes in eukaryotic cells, whose RNA products have well-defined functions in translation and other biological processes for some, and functions that remain to be defined for others. For all of them, however, new functions are being described. For example, Pol III products have been reported to regulate certain proteins such as protein kinase R (PKR) by direct association, to constitute the source of very short RNAs with regulatory roles in gene expression, or to control microRNA levels by sequestration. Consistent with these many functions, deregulation of Pol III transcribed genes is associated with a large variety of human disorders. Here we review different human diseases that have been linked to defects in the Pol III transcription apparatus or to Pol III products imbalance and discuss the possible underlying mechanisms."	0
"30975460"	"RRM Transcription Factors Interact with NLRs and Regulate Broad-Spectrum Blast Resistance in Rice.Nucleotide-binding site leucine-rich repeat (NLR) receptors perceive pathogen effectors and trigger plant immunity. However, the mechanisms underlying NLR-triggered defense responses remain obscure. The recently discovered Pigm locus in rice encodes a cluster of NLRs, including PigmR, which confers broad-spectrum resistance to blast fungus. Here, we identify PIBP1 (PigmR-INTERACTING and BLAST RESISTANCE PROTEIN 1), an RRM (RNA-recognition motif) protein that specifically interacts with PigmR and other similar NLRs to trigger blast resistance. PigmR-promoted nuclear accumulation of PIBP1 ensures full blast resistance. We find that PIBP1 and a homolog, Os06 g02240, bind DNA and function as unconventional transcription factors at the promoters of the defense genes OsWAK14 and OsPAL1, activating their expression. Knockout of PIBP1 and Os06 g02240 greatly attenuated blast resistance. Collectively, our study discovers previously unappreciated RRM transcription factors that directly interact with NLRs to activate plant defense, establishing a direct link between transcriptional activation of immune responses with NLR-mediated pathogen perception."	0
"30554944"	"RSC-Associated Subnucleosomes Define MNase-Sensitive Promoters in Yeast.The classic view of nucleosome organization at active promoters is that two well-positioned nucleosomes flank a nucleosome-depleted region (NDR). However, this view has been recently disputed by contradictory reports as to whether wider (≳150 bp) NDRs instead contain unstable, micrococcal nuclease-sensitive (""fragile"") nucleosomal particles. To determine the composition of fragile particles, we introduce CUT&RUN.ChIP, in which targeted nuclease cleavage and release is followed by chromatin immunoprecipitation. We find that fragile particles represent the occupancy of the RSC (remodeling the structure of chromatin) nucleosome remodeling complex and RSC-bound, partially unwrapped nucleosomal intermediates. We also find that general regulatory factors (GRFs) bind to partially unwrapped nucleosomes at these promoters. We propose that RSC binding and its action cause nucleosomes to unravel, facilitate subsequent binding of GRFs, and constitute a dynamic cycle of nucleosome deposition and clearance at the subset of wide Pol II promoter NDRs."	0
"32160544"	"Glioblastoma Cell Resistance to EGFR and MET Inhibition Can Be Overcome via Blockade of FGFR-SPRY2 Bypass Signaling.SPRY2 is a purported tumor suppressor in certain cancers that promotes tumor growth and resistance to receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors in glioblastoma. Here, we identify a SPRY2-dependent bypass signaling mechanism in glioblastoma that drives resistance to EGFR and MET inhibition. In glioblastoma cells treated with EGFR and MET inhibitors, SPRY2 expression is initially suppressed but eventually rebounds due to NF-κB pathway activation, resultant autocrine FGFR activation, and reactivation of ERK, which controls SPRY2 transcription. In cells where FGFR autocrine signaling does not occur and ERK does not reactivate, or in which ERK reactivates but SPRY2 cannot be expressed, EGFR and MET inhibitors are more effective at promoting death. The same mechanism also drives acquired resistance to EGFR and MET inhibition. Furthermore, tumor xenografts expressing an ERK-dependent bioluminescent reporter engineered for these studies reveal that this bypass resistance mechanism plays out in vivo but can be overcome through simultaneous FGFR inhibition."	1
"32303635"	"Transcriptome profiling and protease inhibition experiments identify proteases that activate H3N2 influenza A and influenza B viruses in murine airways.Cleavage of influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) by host proteases is essential for virus infectivity. HA of most influenza A and B (IAV/IBV) viruses is cleaved at a monobasic motif by trypsin-like proteases. Previous studies have reported that transmembrane serine protease 2 (TMPRSS2) is essential for activation of H7N9 and H1N1pdm IAV in mice but that H3N2 IAV and IBV activation is independent of TMPRSS2 and carried out by as-yet-undetermined protease(s). Here, to identify additional H3 IAV- and IBV-activating proteases, we used RNA-Seq to investigate the protease repertoire of murine lower airway tissues, primary type II alveolar epithelial cells (AECIIs), and the mouse lung cell line MLE-15. Among 13 candidates identified, TMPRSS4, TMPRSS13, hepsin, and prostasin activated H3 and IBV HA <i>in vitro</i> IBV activation and replication was reduced in AECIIs from <i>Tmprss2/Tmprss4</i>-deficient mice compared with WT or Tmprss2-deficient mice, indicating that murine TMPRSS4 is involved in IBV activation. Multicycle replication of H3N2 IAV and IBV in AECIIs of <i>Tmprss2/Tmprss4</i>-deficient mice varied in sensitivity to protease inhibitors, indicating that different, but overlapping, sets of murine proteases facilitate H3 and IBV HA cleavages. Interestingly, human hepsin and prostasin orthologs did not activate H3, but they did activate IBV HA <i>in vitro</i> Our results indicate that TMPRSS4 is an IBV-activating protease in murine AECIIs and suggest that TMPRSS13, hepsin, and prostasin cleave H3 and IBV HA in mice. They further show that hepsin and prostasin orthologs might contribute to the differences observed in TMPRSS2-independent activation of H3 in murine and human airways."	0
"32541877"	"The protein kinase Akt acts as a coat adaptor in endocytic recycling.Coat proteins have a central role in vesicular transport by binding to cargoes for their sorting into intracellular pathways. Cargo recognition is mediated by components of the coat complex known as adaptor proteins<sup>1-3</sup>. We previously showed that Arf-GAP with coil-coil, ANK repeat and PH domain-containing protein 1 (ACAP1) functions as an adaptor for a clathrin coat complex that has a function in endocytic recycling<sup>4-6</sup>. Here, we show that the protein kinase Akt acts as a co-adaptor in this complex, and is needed in conjunction with ACAP1 to bind to cargo proteins to promote their recycling. In addition to advancing the understanding of endocytic recycling, we uncover a fundamentally different function in which a kinase acts, as Akt in this case is an effector rather than a regulator in a cellular event."	1
"32023451"	"A Positive Feedback Loop of TET3 and TGF-β1 Promotes Liver Fibrosis.Pathological activation of TGF-β signaling is universal in fibrosis. Aberrant TGF-β signaling in conjunction with transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) into fibrogenic myofibroblasts plays a central role in liver fibrosis. Here we report that the DNA demethylase TET3 is anomalously upregulated in fibrotic livers in both humans and mice. We demonstrate that in human HSCs, TET3 promotes profibrotic gene expression by upregulation of multiple key TGF-β pathway genes, including TGFB1. TET3 binds to target gene promoters, inducing demethylation, which in turn facilitates chromatin remodeling and transcription. We also reveal a positive feedback loop between TGF-β1 and TET3 in both HSCs and hepatocytes. Furthermore, TET3 knockdown ameliorates liver fibrosis in mice. Our results uncover a TET3/TGF-β1 positive feedback loop as a crucial determinant of liver fibrosis and suggest that inhibiting TET3 may represent a therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis and perhaps other fibrotic diseases."	1
"32354837"	"4E-T-bound mRNAs are stored in a silenced and deadenylated form.Human 4E-T is an eIF4E-binding protein (4E-BP) present in processing (P)-bodies that represses translation and regulates decay of mRNAs destabilized by AU-rich elements and microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we show that upon mRNA binding 4E-T represses translation and promotes deadenylation via the recruitment of the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. The interaction with CCR4-NOT is mediated by previously uncharacterized sites in the middle region of 4E-T. Importantly, mRNA decapping and decay are inhibited by 4E-T and the deadenylated target is stored in a repressed form. Inhibition of mRNA decapping requires the interaction of 4E-T with the cap-binding proteins eIF4E/4EHP. We further show that regulation of decapping by 4E-T participates in mRNA repression by the miRNA effector protein TNRC6B and that 4E-T overexpression interferes with tristetraprolin (TTP)- and NOT1-mediated mRNA decay. Thus, we postulate that 4E-T modulates 5'-to-3' decay by swapping the fate of a deadenylated mRNA from complete degradation to storage. Our results provide insight into the mechanism of mRNA storage that controls localized translation and mRNA stability in P-bodies."	1
"31543423"	"Transient Hysteresis in CDK4/6 Activity Underlies Passage of the Restriction Point in G1.Cells escape the need for mitogens at a restriction point several hours before entering S phase. The restriction point has been proposed to result from CDK4/6 initiating partial Rb phosphorylation to trigger a bistable switch whereby cyclin E-CDK2 and Rb mutually reinforce each other to induce Rb hyperphosphorylation. Here, using single-cell analysis, we unexpectedly found that cyclin E/A-CDK activity can only maintain Rb hyperphosphorylation starting at the onset of S phase and that CDK4/6 activity, but not cyclin E/A-CDK activity, is required to hyperphosphorylate Rb throughout G1 phase. Mitogen removal in G1 results in a gradual loss of CDK4/6 activity with a high likelihood of cells sustaining Rb hyperphosphorylation until S phase, at which point cyclin E/A-CDK activity takes over. Thus, it is short-term memory, or transient hysteresis, in CDK4/6 activity following mitogen removal that sustains Rb hyperphosphorylation, demonstrating a probabilistic rather than an irreversible molecular mechanism underlying the restriction point."	1
"32675283"	"Maintenance of hook complex integrity and centrin arm assembly facilitates flagellum inheritance in <i>Trypanosoma brucei</i>.Inheritance of the newly assembled flagellum in the human parasite <i>Trypanosoma brucei</i> depends on the faithful duplication and segregation of multiple flagellum-associated cytoskeletal structures, including the hook complex and its associated centrin arm. The biological functions of this unique hook complex-centrin arm assembly remain poorly understood. Here, we report a hook complex-associated protein named BOH2 that plays an essential role in promoting flagellum inheritance. BOH2 localizes to the hooked part of the hook complex by bridging the hook complex, the centrin arm, and the flagellum attachment zone filament. Depletion of BOH2 caused the loss of the shank part of the hook complex and its associated protein TbSmee1, disrupted the assembly of the centrin arm and the recruitment of centrin arm-associated protein CAAP1, inhibited the assembly of the flagellum attachment zone, and caused flagellum mispositioning and detachment. These results demonstrate crucial roles of BOH2 in maintaining hook complex integrity and promoting centrin arm formation and suggest that proper assembly of the hook complex-centrin arm structure facilitates flagellum inheritance."	0
"31805520"	"A unified allosteric/torpedo mechanism for transcriptional termination on human protein-coding genes.The allosteric and torpedo models have been used for 30 yr to explain how transcription terminates on protein-coding genes. The former invokes termination via conformational changes in the transcription complex and the latter proposes that degradation of the downstream product of poly(A) signal (PAS) processing is important. Here, we describe a single mechanism incorporating features of both models. We show that termination is completely abolished by rapid elimination of CPSF73, which causes very extensive transcriptional readthrough genome-wide. This is because CPSF73 functions upstream of modifications to the elongation complex and provides an entry site for the XRN2 torpedo. Rapid depletion of XRN2 enriches these events that we show are underpinned by protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) activity, the inhibition of which extends readthrough in the absence of XRN2. Our results suggest a combined allosteric/torpedo mechanism, in which PP1-dependent slowing down of polymerases over termination regions facilitates their pursuit/capture by XRN2 following PAS processing."	0
"31940491"	"Cancer-Specific Loss of p53 Leads to a Modulation of Myeloid and T Cell Responses.Loss of p53 function contributes to the development of many cancers. While cell-autonomous consequences of p53 mutation have been studied extensively, the role of p53 in regulating the anti-tumor immune response is still poorly understood. Here, we show that loss of p53 in cancer cells modulates the tumor-immune landscape to circumvent immune destruction. Deletion of p53 promotes the recruitment and instruction of suppressive myeloid CD11b<sup>+</sup> cells, in part through increased expression of CXCR3/CCR2-associated chemokines and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), and attenuates the CD4<sup>+</sup> T helper 1 (Th1) and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell responses in vivo. p53-null tumors also show an accumulation of suppressive regulatory T (Treg) cells. Finally, we show that two key drivers of tumorigenesis, activation of KRAS and deletion of p53, cooperate to promote immune tolerance."	0
"32726635"	"Bab2 Functions as an Ecdysone-Responsive Transcriptional Repressor during Drosophila Development.Drosophila development is governed by distinct ecdysone steroid pulses that initiate spatially and temporally defined gene expression programs. The translation of these signals into tissue-specific responses is crucial for metamorphosis, but the mechanisms that confer specificity to systemic ecdysone pulses are far from understood. Here, we identify Bric-à-brac 2 (Bab2) as an ecdysone-responsive transcriptional repressor that controls temporal gene expression during larval to pupal transition. Bab2 is necessary to terminate Salivary gland secretion (Sgs) gene expression, while premature Bab2 expression blocks Sgs genes and causes precocious salivary gland histolysis. The timely expression of bab2 is controlled by the ecdysone-responsive transcription factor Broad, and manipulation of EcR/USP/Broad signaling induces inappropriate Bab2 expression and termination of Sgs gene expression. Bab2 directly binds to Sgs loci in vitro and represses all Sgs genes in vivo. Our work characterizes Bab2 as a temporal regulator of somatic gene expression in response to systemic ecdysone signaling."	1
"32433974"	"Interplay between Liver X Receptor and Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1α Potentiates Interleukin-1β Production in Human Macrophages.Low-grade inflammation is constitutive of atherosclerosis, and anti-inflammatory therapy inhibiting interleukin-1β (IL-1β) reduces the rate of cardiovascular events. While cholesterol accumulation in atheroma plaque and macrophages is a major driver of the inflammatory process, the role of the LXR cholesterol sensors remains to be clarified. Murine and human macrophages were treated with LXR agonists for 48 h before Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation. Unexpectedly, we observe that, among other cytokines, LXR agonists selectively increase IL1B mRNA levels independently of TLR activation. This effect, restricted to human macrophages, is mediated by activation of HIF-1α through LXR. Accordingly, LXR agonists also potentiate other HIF-1α-dependent pathways, such as glycolysis. Treatment of human macrophages with carotid plaque homogenates also leads to induction of IL1B in an LXR-dependent manner. Thus, our work discloses a mechanism by which cholesterol and oxysterols trigger inflammation in atherosclerosis. This suggests perspectives to target IL-1β production in atherosclerotic patients."	1
"32049013"	"A FLCN-TFE3 Feedback Loop Prevents Excessive Glycogenesis and Phagocyte Activation by Regulating Lysosome Activity.The tumor suppressor folliculin (FLCN) suppresses nuclear translocation of TFE3, a master transcription factor for lysosomal biogenesis, via regulation of amino-acid-sensing Rag GTPases. However, the importance of this lysosomal regulation in mammalian physiology remains unclear. Following hematopoietic-lineage-specific Flcn deletion in mice, we found expansion of vacuolated phagocytes that accumulate glycogen in their cytoplasm, phenotypes reminiscent of lysosomal storage disorder (LSD). We report that TFE3 acts in a feedback loop to transcriptionally activate FLCN expression, and FLCN loss disrupts this loop, augmenting TFE3 activity. Tfe3 deletion in Flcn knockout mice reduces the number of phagocytes and ameliorates LSD-like phenotypes. We further reveal that TFE3 stimulates glycogenesis by promoting the expression of glycogenesis genes, including Gys1 and Gyg, upon loss of Flcn. Taken together, we propose that the FLCN-TFE3 feedback loop acts as a rheostat to control lysosome activity and prevents excessive glycogenesis and LSD-like phagocyte activation."	1
"32814054"	"Mn<sup>2+</sup> Directly Activates cGAS and Structural Analysis Suggests Mn<sup>2+</sup> Induces a Noncanonical Catalytic Synthesis of 2'3'-cGAMP.DNA binding allosterically activates the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP [cGAMP] synthase) to synthesize 2'3'-cGAMP, using Mg<sup>2+</sup> as the metal cofactor that catalyzes two nucleotidyl-transferring reactions. We previously found that Mn<sup>2+</sup> potentiates cGAS activation, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we report that Mn<sup>2+</sup> directly activates cGAS. Structural analysis reveals that Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS undergoes globally similar conformational changes to DNA-activated cGAS but forms a unique η1 helix to widen the catalytic pocket, allowing substrate entry and cGAMP synthesis. Strikingly, in Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS, the linear intermediates pppGpG and pGpA take an inverted orientation in the active pocket, suggesting a noncanonical but accelerated cGAMP cyclization without substrate flip-over. Moreover, unlike the octahedral coordination around Mg<sup>2+</sup>, the two catalytic Mn<sup>2+</sup> are coordinated by triphosphate moiety of the inverted substrate, independent of the catalytic triad residues. Our findings thus uncover Mn<sup>2+</sup> as a cGAS activator that initiates noncanonical 2'3'-cGAMP synthesis."	1
"32203420"	"Systems analysis of RhoGEF and RhoGAP regulatory proteins reveals spatially organized RAC1 signalling from integrin adhesions.Rho GTPases are central regulators of the cytoskeleton and, in humans, are controlled by 145 multidomain guanine nucleotide exchange factors (RhoGEFs) and GTPase-activating proteins (RhoGAPs). How Rho signalling patterns are established in dynamic cell spaces to control cellular morphogenesis is unclear. Through a family-wide characterization of substrate specificities, interactomes and localization, we reveal at the systems level how RhoGEFs and RhoGAPs contextualize and spatiotemporally control Rho signalling. These proteins are widely autoinhibited to allow local regulation, form complexes to jointly coordinate their networks and provide positional information for signalling. RhoGAPs are more promiscuous than RhoGEFs to confine Rho activity gradients. Our resource enabled us to uncover a multi-RhoGEF complex downstream of G-protein-coupled receptors controlling CDC42-RHOA crosstalk. Moreover, we show that integrin adhesions spatially segregate GEFs and GAPs to shape RAC1 activity zones in response to mechanical cues. This mechanism controls the protrusion and contraction dynamics fundamental to cell motility. Our systems analysis of Rho regulators is key to revealing emergent organization principles of Rho signalling."	0
"32375027"	"Systematic Analysis of Targets of Pumilio-Mediated mRNA Decay Reveals that PUM1 Repression by DNA Damage Activates Translesion Synthesis.RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play a pivotal role in gene expression by modulating the stability of transcripts. However, the identification of degradation target mRNAs of RBPs remains difficult. By the combined analysis of transcriptome-wide mRNA stabilities and the binding of mRNAs to human Pumilio 1 (PUM1), we identify 48 mRNAs that both bind to PUM1 and exhibit PUM1-dependent degradation. Analysis of changes in the abundance of PUM1 and its degradation target mRNAs in RNA-seq data indicate that DNA-damaging agents negatively regulate PUM1-mediated mRNA decay. Cells exposed to cisplatin have reduced PUM1 abundance and increased PCNA and UBE2A mRNAs encoding proteins involved in DNA damage tolerance by translesion synthesis (TLS). Cells overexpressing PUM1 exhibit impaired DNA synthesis and TLS and increased sensitivity to the cytotoxic effect of cisplatin. Thus, our method identifies target mRNAs of PUM1-mediated decay and reveals that cells respond to DNA damage by inhibiting PUM1-mediated mRNA decay to activate TLS."	1
"30595439"	"Helicase Subunit Cdc45 Targets the Checkpoint Kinase Rad53 to Both Replication Initiation and Elongation Complexes after Fork Stalling.Across eukaryotes, disruption of DNA replication causes an S phase checkpoint response, which regulates multiple processes, including inhibition of replication initiation and fork stabilization. How these events are coordinated remains poorly understood. Here, we show that the replicative helicase component Cdc45 targets the checkpoint kinase Rad53 to distinct replication complexes in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rad53 binds to forkhead-associated (FHA) interaction motifs in an unstructured loop region of Cdc45, which is phosphorylated by Rad53 itself, and this interaction is necessary for the inhibition of origin firing through Sld3. Cdc45 also recruits Rad53 to stalled replication forks, which we demonstrate is important for the response to replication stress. Finally, we show that a Cdc45 mutation found in patients with Meier-Gorlin syndrome disrupts the functional interaction with Rad53 in yeast. Together, we present a single mechanism by which a checkpoint kinase targets replication initiation and elongation complexes, which may be relevant to human disease."	1
"32668245"	"ZIGIR, a Granule-Specific Zn<sup>2+</sup> Indicator, Reveals Human Islet α Cell Heterogeneity.Numerous mammalian cells contain abundant Zn<sup>2+</sup> in their secretory granules, yet available Zn<sup>2+</sup> sensors lack the desired specificity and sensitivity for imaging granular Zn<sup>2+</sup>. We developed a fluorescent zinc granule indicator, ZIGIR, that possesses numerous desired properties for live cell imaging, including >100-fold fluorescence enhancement, membrane permeability, and selective enrichment to acidic granules. The combined advantages endow ZIGIR with superior sensitivity and specificity for imaging granular Zn<sup>2+</sup>. ZIGIR enables separation of heterogenous β cells based on their insulin content and sorting of mouse islets into pure α cells and β cells. In human islets, ZIGIR facilitates sorting of endocrine cells into highly enriched α cells and β cells, reveals unexpectedly high Zn<sup>2+</sup> activity in the somatostatin granule of some δ cells, and uncovers variation in the glucagon content among human α cells. We expect broad applications of ZIGIR for studying Zn<sup>2+</sup> biology and Zn<sup>2+</sup>-rich secretory granules and for engineering β cells with high insulin content for treating diabetes."	0
"31980388"	"A Cancer-Specific Ubiquitin Ligase Drives mRNA Alternative Polyadenylation by Ubiquitinating the mRNA 3' End Processing Complex.Alternative polyadenylation (APA) contributes to transcriptome complexity by generating mRNA isoforms with varying 3' UTR lengths. APA leading to 3' UTR shortening (3' US) is a common feature of most cancer cells; however, the molecular mechanisms are not understood. Here, we describe a widespread mechanism promoting 3' US in cancer through ubiquitination of the mRNA 3' end processing complex protein, PCF11, by the cancer-specific MAGE-A11-HUWE1 ubiquitin ligase. MAGE-A11 is normally expressed only in the male germline but is frequently re-activated in cancers. MAGE-A11 is necessary for cancer cell viability and is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis. Screening for targets of MAGE-A11 revealed that it ubiquitinates PCF11, resulting in loss of CFIm25 from the mRNA 3' end processing complex. This leads to APA of many transcripts affecting core oncogenic and tumor suppressors, including cyclin D2 and PTEN. These findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms driving APA in cancer and suggest therapeutic strategies."	1
"32571875"	"PRL3 pseudophosphatase activity is necessary and sufficient to promote metastatic growth.Phosphatases of regenerating liver (PRLs) are markers of cancer and promote tumor growth. They have been implicated in a variety of biochemical pathways but the physiologically relevant target of phosphatase activity has eluded 20 years of investigation. Here, we show that PRL3 catalytic activity is not required in a mouse model of metastasis. PRL3 binds and inhibits CNNM4, a membrane protein associated with magnesium transport. Analysis of PRL3 mutants specifically defective in either CNNM-binding or phosphatase activity demonstrate that CNNM binding is necessary and sufficient to promote tumor metastasis. As PRLs do have phosphatase activity, they are in fact <i>pseudo</i>-pseudophosphatases. Phosphatase activity leads to formation of phosphocysteine, which blocks CNNM binding and may play a regulatory role. We show levels of PRL cysteine phosphorylation vary in response to culture conditions and in different tissues. Examination of related protein phosphatases shows the stability of phosphocysteine is a unique and evolutionarily conserved property of PRLs. The demonstration that PRL3 functions as a pseudophosphatase has important ramifications for the design of PRL inhibitors for cancer."	1
"31932165"	"HORMA Domain Proteins and a Trip13-like ATPase Regulate Bacterial cGAS-like Enzymes to Mediate Bacteriophage Immunity.Bacteria are continually challenged by foreign invaders, including bacteriophages, and have evolved a variety of defenses against these invaders. Here, we describe the structural and biochemical mechanisms of a bacteriophage immunity pathway found in a broad array of bacteria, including E. coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. This pathway uses eukaryotic-like HORMA domain proteins that recognize specific peptides, then bind and activate a cGAS/DncV-like nucleotidyltransferase (CD-NTase) to generate a cyclic triadenylate (cAAA) second messenger; cAAA in turn activates an endonuclease effector, NucC. Signaling is attenuated by a homolog of the AAA+ ATPase Pch2/TRIP13, which binds and disassembles the active HORMA-CD-NTase complex. When expressed in non-pathogenic E. coli, this pathway confers immunity against bacteriophage λ through an abortive infection mechanism. Our findings reveal the molecular mechanisms of a bacterial defense pathway integrating a cGAS-like nucleotidyltransferase with HORMA domain proteins for threat sensing through protein detection and negative regulation by a Trip13 ATPase."	0
"32187535"	"Morphine and Naloxone Facilitate Neural Stem Cells Proliferation via a TET1-Dependent and Receptor-Independent Pathway.Normally, opioids function in a receptor-dependent manner. They bind to opioid receptors, activate or inhibit receptor activation, and subsequently modulate downstream signal transduction. However, the complex functions of opioids and the low expression of opioid receptors and their endogenous peptide agonists in neural stem cells (NSCs) suggest that some opioids may also modulate NSCs via a receptor-independent pathway. In the current study, two opioids, morphine and naloxone, are demonstrated to facilitate NSC proliferation via a receptor-independent and ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1)-dependent pathway. Morphine and naloxone penetrate cell membrane, bind to TET1 protein via three key residues (1,880-1,882), and subsequently result in facilitated proliferation of NSCs. In addition, the two opioids also inhibit the DNA demethylation ability of TET1. In summary, the current results connect opioids and DNA demethylation directly at least in NSCs and extend our understanding on both opioids and NSCs."	1
"32807903"	"Decapping enzyme 1A breaks X-chromosome symmetry by controlling Tsix elongation and RNA turnover.How allelic asymmetry is generated remains a major unsolved problem in epigenetics. Here we model the problem using X-chromosome inactivation by developing ""BioRBP"", an enzymatic RNA-proteomic method that enables probing of low-abundance interactions and an allelic RNA-depletion and -tagging system. We identify messenger RNA-decapping enzyme 1A (DCP1A) as a key regulator of Tsix, a noncoding RNA implicated in allelic choice through X-chromosome pairing. DCP1A controls Tsix half-life and transcription elongation. Depleting DCP1A causes accumulation of X-X pairs and perturbs the transition to monoallelic Tsix expression required for Xist upregulation. While ablating DCP1A causes hyperpairing, forcing Tsix degradation resolves pairing and enables Xist upregulation. We link pairing to allelic partitioning of CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) and show that tethering DCP1A to one Tsix allele is sufficient to drive monoallelic Xist expression. Thus, DCP1A flips a bistable switch for the mutually exclusive determination of active and inactive Xs."	1
"32231305"	"Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency through Neo1 and Unc5b co-regulation of Wnt and MAPK signalling.In mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), chemical blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 (2i) instructs a self-renewing ground state whose endogenous inducers are unknown. Here we show that the axon guidance cue Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency by triggering profound signalling, transcriptomic and epigenetic changes in mESCs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Netrin-1 can substitute for blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 to sustain self-renewal of mESCs in combination with leukaemia inhibitory factor and regulates the formation of the mouse pluripotent blastocyst. Mechanistically, we reveal how Netrin-1 and the balance of its receptors Neo1 and Unc5B co-regulate Wnt and MAPK pathways in both mouse and human ESCs. Netrin-1 induces Fak kinase to inactivate Gsk3α/β and stabilize β-catenin while increasing the phosphatase activity of a Ppp2r2c-containing Pp2a complex to reduce Erk1/2 activity. Collectively, this work identifies Netrin-1 as a regulator of pluripotency and reveals that it mediates different effects in mESCs depending on its receptor dosage, opening perspectives for balancing self-renewal and lineage commitment."	1
"31733992"	"An mTORC1-to-CDK1 Switch Maintains Autophagy Suppression during Mitosis.Since nuclear envelope breakdown occurs during mitosis in metazoan cells, it has been proposed that macroautophagy must be inhibited to maintain genome integrity. However, repression of macroautophagy during mitosis remains controversial and mechanistic detail limited to the suggestion that CDK1 phosphorylates VPS34. Here, we show that initiation of macroautophagy, measured by the translocation of the ULK complex to autophagic puncta, is repressed during mitosis, even when mTORC1 is inhibited. Indeed, mTORC1 is inactive during mitosis, reflecting its failure to localize to lysosomes due to CDK1-dependent RAPTOR phosphorylation. While mTORC1 normally represses autophagy via phosphorylation of ULK1, ATG13, ATG14, and TFEB, we show that the mitotic phosphorylation of these autophagy regulators, including at known repressive sites, is dependent on CDK1 but independent of mTOR. Thus, CDK1 substitutes for inhibited mTORC1 as the master regulator of macroautophagy during mitosis, uncoupling autophagy regulation from nutrient status to ensure repression of macroautophagy during mitosis."	1
"30904392"	"Protein Kinase C Quality Control by Phosphatase PHLPP1 Unveils Loss-of-Function Mechanism in Cancer.Protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes function as tumor suppressors in increasing contexts. In contrast to oncogenic kinases, whose function is acutely regulated by transient phosphorylation, PKC is constitutively phosphorylated following biosynthesis to yield a stable, autoinhibited enzyme that is reversibly activated by second messengers. Here, we report that the phosphatase PHLPP1 opposes PKC phosphorylation during maturation, leading to the degradation of aberrantly active species that do not become autoinhibited. Cancer-associated hotspot mutations in the pseudosubstrate of PKCβ that impair autoinhibition result in dephosphorylated and unstable enzymes. Protein-level analysis reveals that PKCα is fully phosphorylated at the PHLPP site in over 5,000 patient tumors, with higher PKC levels correlating (1) inversely with PHLPP1 levels and (2) positively with improved survival in pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Thus, PHLPP1 provides a proofreading step that maintains the fidelity of PKC autoinhibition and reveals a prominent loss-of-function mechanism in cancer by suppressing the steady-state levels of PKC."	1
"32029457"	"Interplay between compartmentalized NAD<sup>+</sup> synthesis and consumption: a focus on the PARP family.Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD<sup>+</sup>) is an essential cofactor for redox enzymes, but also moonlights as a substrate for signaling enzymes. When used as a substrate by signaling enzymes, it is consumed, necessitating the recycling of NAD<sup>+</sup> consumption products (i.e., nicotinamide) via a salvage pathway in order to maintain NAD<sup>+</sup> homeostasis. A major family of NAD<sup>+</sup> consumers in mammalian cells are poly-ADP-ribose-polymerases (PARPs). PARPs comprise a family of 17 enzymes in humans, 16 of which catalyze the transfer of ADP-ribose from NAD<sup>+</sup> to macromolecular targets (namely, proteins, but also DNA and RNA). Because PARPs and the NAD<sup>+</sup> biosynthetic enzymes are subcellularly localized, an emerging concept is that the activity of PARPs and other NAD<sup>+</sup> consumers are regulated in a compartmentalized manner. In this review, I discuss NAD<sup>+</sup> metabolism, how different subcellular pools of NAD<sup>+</sup> are established and regulated, and how free NAD<sup>+</sup> levels can control signaling by PARPs and redox metabolism."	0
"32017896"	"LARP7-Mediated U6 snRNA Modification Ensures Splicing Fidelity and Spermatogenesis in Mice.U6 snRNA, as an essential component of the catalytic core of the pre-mRNA processing spliceosome, is heavily modified post-transcriptionally, with 2'-O-methylation being most common. The role of these modifications in pre-mRNA splicing as well as their physiological function in mammals have remained largely unclear. Here we report that the La-related protein LARP7 functions as a critical cofactor for 2'-O-methylation of U6 in mouse male germ cells. Mechanistically, LARP7 promotes U6 loading onto box C/D snoRNP, facilitating U6 2'-O-methylation by box C/D snoRNP. Importantly, ablation of LARP7 in the male germline causes defective U6 2'-O-methylation, massive alterations in pre-mRNA splicing, and spermatogenic failure in mice, which can be rescued by ectopic expression of wild-type LARP7 but not an U6-loading-deficient mutant LARP7. Our data uncover a novel role of LARP7 in regulating U6 2'-O-methylation and demonstrate the functional requirement of such modification for splicing fidelity and spermatogenesis in mice."	1
"32884147"	"Synthetic immunomodulation with a CRISPR super-repressor in vivo.Transient modulation of the genes involved in immunity, without exerting a permanent change in the DNA code, can be an effective strategy to modulate the course of many inflammatory conditions. CRISPR-Cas9 technology represents a promising platform for achieving this goal. Truncation of guide RNA (gRNA) from the 5' end enables the application of a nuclease competent Cas9 protein for transcriptional modulation of genes, allowing multifunctionality of CRISPR. Here, we introduce an enhanced CRISPR-based transcriptional repressor to reprogram immune homeostasis in vivo. In this repressor system, two transcriptional repressors-heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1a) and Krüppel-associated box (KRAB)-are fused to the MS2 coat protein and subsequently recruited by gRNA aptamer binding to a nuclease competent CRISPR complex containing truncated gRNAs. With the enhanced repressor, we demonstrate transcriptional repression of the Myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (Myd88) gene in vitro and in vivo. We demonstrate that this strategy can efficiently downregulate Myd88 expression in lung, blood and bone marrow of Cas9 transgenic mice that receive systemic injection of adeno-associated virus (AAV)2/1-carrying truncated gRNAs targeting Myd88 and the MS2-HP1a-KRAB cassette. This downregulation is accompanied by changes in downstream signalling elements such as TNF-α and ICAM-1. Myd88 repression leads to a decrease in immunoglobulin G (IgG) production against AAV2/1 and AAV2/9 and this strategy modulates the IgG response against AAV cargos. It improves the efficiency of a subsequent AAV9/CRISPR treatment for repression of proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), a gene that, when repressed, can lower blood cholesterol levels. We also demonstrate that CRISPR-mediated Myd88 repression can act as a prophylactic measure against septicaemia in both Cas9 transgenic and C57BL/6J mice. When delivered by nanoparticles, this repressor can serve as a therapeutic modality to influence the course of septicaemia. Collectively, we report that CRISPR-mediated repression of endogenous Myd88 can effectively modulate the host immune response against AAV-mediated gene therapy and influence the course of septicaemia. The ability to control Myd88 transcript levels using a CRISPR-based synthetic repressor can be an effective strategy for AAV-based CRISPR therapies, as this pathway serves as a key node in the induction of humoral immunity against AAV serotypes."	0
"30879902"	"LC Domain-Mediated Coalescence Is Essential for Otu Enzymatic Activity to Extend Drosophila Lifespan.In eukaryotic cells, RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) interact with RNAs to form ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNA granules) that have long been thought to regulate RNA fate or activity. Emerging evidence suggests that some RBPs not only bind RNA but also possess enzymatic activity related to ubiquitin regulation, raising important questions of whether these RBP-formed RNA granules regulate ubiquitin signaling and related biological functions. Here, we show that Drosophila Otu binds RNAs and coalesces to membrane-less biomolecular condensates via its intrinsically disordered low-complexity domain, and coalescence represents a functional state for Otu exerting deubiquitinase activity. Notably, coalescence-mediated enzymatic activity of Otu is positively regulated by its bound RNAs and co-partner Bam. Further genetic analysis reveals that the Otu/Bam deubiquitinase complex and dTraf6 constitute a feedback loop to maintain intestinal immune homeostasis during aging, thereby controlling longevity. Thus, regulated biomolecular condensates may represent a mechanism that controls dynamic enzymatic activities and related biological processes."	0
"30609388"	"CDK4 Inhibitors Thwart Immunity by Inhibiting Phospho-RB-NF-κB Complexes.PD-L1 plays a central role in immune recognition of cancer cells. In this issue of Molecular Cell, Jin et al. (2019) report that a phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein contacts the DNA-binding domain of p65 NF-κB, thereby blocking transcription of PD-L1."	0
"32579928"	"Fibroblast-Derived STC-1 Modulates Tumor-Associated Macrophages and Lung Adenocarcinoma Development.The tumor microenvironment (TME) consists of different cell types, including tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and tumor-associated fibroblasts (TAFs). How these cells interact and contribute to lung carcinogenesis remains elusive. Using <sup>G12D</sup>KRAS- and <sup>V600E</sup>BRAF-driven mouse lung models, we identify the pleiotropic glycoprotein stanniocalcin-1 (STC1) as a regulator of TAM-TAF interactions. STC1 is secreted by TAFs and suppresses TAM differentiation, at least in part, by sequestering the binding of GRP94, an autocrine macrophage-differentiation-inducing factor, to its cognate scavenger receptors. The accumulation of mature TAMs in the Stc1-deficient lung leads to enhanced secretion of TGF-β1 and, thus, TAF accumulation in the TME. Consistent with the mouse data, in human lung adenocarcinoma, STC1 expression is restricted to myofibroblasts, and a significant increase of naive macrophages is detected in STC1-high compared with STC1-low cases. This work increases our understanding of lung adenocarcinoma development and suggests new approaches for therapeutic targeting of the TME."	1
"32783939"	"Cell-Based Strain Remodeling of a Nonfibrous Matrix as an Organizing Principle for Vasculogenesis.Endothelial tube formation on a reconstituted basement membrane (Matrigel) is a well-established in vitro model for studying the processes of angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. However, to date, the organizing principles that underlie the morphogenesis of this network and that shape the initial process of cells' finding one another remain elusive. Here, we identify a mechanism that allows cells to form networks by mechanically reorganizing and stiffening their extracellular matrix, independent of chemical guidance cues. Interestingly, we find that this cellular self-organization strongly depends on the connectivity, plasticity, and topology of the surrounding matrix; cell contractility; and cell density. Cells rearrange the matrix and form bridges of matrix material that are stiffer than their surroundings, thus creating a durotactic track for the initiation of cell protrusions and cell-cell contacts. This contractility-based communication via strain stiffening and matrix rearrangement might be a general organizing principle during tissue development or regeneration."	0
"32719005"	"Structure of a collagen VI α3 chain VWA domain array: adaptability and functional implications of myopathy causing mutations.Collagen VI is a ubiquitous heterotrimeric protein of the extracellular matrix (ECM) that plays an essential role in the proper maintenance of skeletal muscle. Mutations in collagen VI lead to a spectrum of congenital myopathies, from the mild Bethlem myopathy to the severe Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. Collagen VI contains only a short triple helix and consists primarily of von Willebrand factor type A (VWA) domains, protein-protein interaction modules found in a range of ECM proteins. Disease-causing mutations occur commonly in the VWA domains, and the second VWA domain of the α3 chain, the N2 domain, harbors several such mutations. Here, we investigate structure-function relationships of the N2 mutations to shed light on their possible myopathy mechanisms. We determined the X-ray crystal structure of N2, combined with monitoring secretion efficiency in cell culture of selected N2 single-domain mutants, finding that mutations located within the central core of the domain severely affect secretion efficiency. In longer α3 chain constructs, spanning N6-N3, small-angle X-ray scattering demonstrates that the tandem VWA array has a modular architecture and samples multiple conformations in solution. Single-particle EM confirmed the presence of multiple conformations. Structural adaptability appears intrinsic to the VWA domain region of collagen VI α3 and has implications for binding interactions and modulating stiffness within the ECM."	0
"31677973"	"The Nuclear Matrix Protein SAFB Cooperates with Major Satellite RNAs to Stabilize Heterochromatin Architecture Partially through Phase Separation.Interphase chromatin is hierarchically organized into higher-order architectures that are essential for gene functions, yet the biomolecules that regulate these 3D architectures remain poorly understood. Here, we show that scaffold attachment factor B (SAFB), a nuclear matrix (NM)-associated protein with RNA-binding functions, modulates chromatin condensation and stabilizes heterochromatin foci in mouse cells. SAFB interacts via its R/G-rich region with heterochromatin-associated repeat transcripts such as major satellite RNAs, which promote the phase separation driven by SAFB. Depletion of SAFB leads to changes in 3D genome organization, including an increase in interchromosomal interactions adjacent to pericentromeric heterochromatin and a decrease in genomic compartmentalization, which could result from the decondensation of pericentromeric heterochromatin. Collectively, we reveal the integrated roles of NM-associated proteins and repeat RNAs in the 3D organization of heterochromatin, which may shed light on the molecular mechanisms of nuclear architecture organization."	0
"32820040"	"<i>MYCN</i> drives chemoresistance in small cell lung cancer while USP7 inhibition can restore chemosensitivity.Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive neuroendocrine cancer characterized by initial chemosensitivity followed by emergence of chemoresistant disease. To study roles for <i>MYCN</i> amplification in SCLC progression and chemoresistance, we developed a genetically engineered mouse model of <i>MYCN</i>-overexpressing SCLC. In treatment-naïve mice, <i>MYCN</i> overexpression promoted cell cycle progression, suppressed infiltration of cytotoxic T cells, and accelerated SCLC. <i>MYCN</i> overexpression also suppressed response to cisplatin-etoposide chemotherapy, with similar findings made upon <i>MYCL</i> overexpression. We extended these data to genetically perturb chemosensitive patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of SCLC. In chemosensitive PDX models, overexpression of either <i>MYCN</i> or <i>MYCL</i> also conferred a switch to chemoresistance. To identify therapeutic strategies for <i>MYCN</i>-overexpressing SCLC, we performed a genome-scale CRISPR-Cas9 sgRNA screen. We identified the deubiquitinase USP7 as a <i>MYCN</i>-associated synthetic vulnerability. Pharmacological inhibition of USP7 resensitized chemoresistant <i>MYCN</i>-overexpressing PDX models to chemotherapy in vivo. Our findings show that <i>MYCN</i> overexpression drives SCLC chemoresistance and provide a therapeutic strategy to restore chemosensitivity."	0
"30948267"	"Gamblers: An Antibiotic-Induced Evolvable Cell Subpopulation Differentiated by Reactive-Oxygen-Induced General Stress Response.Antibiotics can induce mutations that cause antibiotic resistance. Yet, despite their importance, mechanisms of antibiotic-promoted mutagenesis remain elusive. We report that the fluoroquinolone antibiotic ciprofloxacin (cipro) induces mutations by triggering transient differentiation of a mutant-generating cell subpopulation, using reactive oxygen species (ROS). Cipro-induced DNA breaks activate the Escherichia coli SOS DNA-damage response and error-prone DNA polymerases in all cells. However, mutagenesis is limited to a cell subpopulation in which electron transfer together with SOS induce ROS, which activate the sigma-S (σ<sup>S</sup>) general-stress response, which allows mutagenic DNA-break repair. When sorted, this small σ<sup>S</sup>-response-""on"" subpopulation produces most antibiotic cross-resistant mutants. A U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug prevents σ<sup>S</sup> induction, specifically inhibiting antibiotic-promoted mutagenesis. Further, SOS-inhibited cell division, which causes multi-chromosome cells, promotes mutagenesis. The data support a model in which within-cell chromosome cooperation together with development of a ""gambler"" cell subpopulation promote resistance evolution without risking most cells."	0
"31253574"	"Structural Basis of BRCC36 Function in DNA Repair and Immune Regulation.In mammals, ∼100 deubiquitinases act on ∼20,000 intracellular ubiquitination sites. Deubiquitinases are commonly regarded as constitutively active, with limited regulatory and targeting capacity. The BRCA1-A and BRISC complexes serve in DNA double-strand break repair and immune signaling and contain the lysine-63 linkage-specific BRCC36 subunit that is functionalized by scaffold subunits ABRAXAS and ABRO1, respectively. The molecular basis underlying BRCA1-A and BRISC function is currently unknown. Here we show that in the BRCA1-A complex structure, ABRAXAS integrates the DNA repair protein RAP80 and provides a high-affinity binding site that sequesters the tumor suppressor BRCA1 away from the break site. In the BRISC structure, ABRO1 binds SHMT2α, a metabolic enzyme enabling cancer growth in hypoxic environments, which we find prevents BRCC36 from binding and cleaving ubiquitin chains. Our work explains modularity in the BRCC36 DUB family, with different adaptor subunits conferring diversified targeting and regulatory functions."	0
"32884148"	"Cellular and molecular architecture of the intestinal stem cell niche.Intestinal stem and progenitor cells replicate and differentiate in distinct compartments, influenced by Wnt, BMP, and other subepithelial cues. The cellular sources of these signals were long obscure because intestinal mesenchyme was insufficiently characterised. In this Review, we discuss how recent mRNA profiles of mouse and human intestinal submucosa, coupled with fine-resolution microscopy and gene and cell disruptions, reveal a coherent picture of an organised tissue carrying cells with distinct molecular properties and functions."	0
"32023463"	"Oct4-Mediated Inhibition of Lsd1 Activity Promotes the Active and Primed State of Pluripotency Enhancers.An aberrant increase in pluripotency gene (PpG) expression due to enhancer reactivation could induce stemness and enhance the tumorigenicity of cancer stem cells. Silencing of PpG enhancers (PpGe) during embryonic stem cell differentiation involves Lsd1-mediated H3K4me1 demethylation and DNA methylation. Here, we observed retention of H3K4me1 and DNA hypomethylation at PpGe associated with a partial repression of PpGs in F9 embryonal carcinoma cells (ECCs) post-differentiation. H3K4me1 demethylation in F9 ECCs could not be rescued by Lsd1 overexpression. Given our observation that H3K4me1 demethylation is accompanied by strong Oct4 repression in P19 ECCs, we tested if Oct4 interaction with Lsd1 affects its catalytic activity. Our data show a dose-dependent inhibition of Lsd1 activity by Oct4 and retention of H3K4me1 at PpGe in Oct4-overexpressing P19 ECCs. These data suggest that Lsd1-Oct4 interaction in cancer stem cells could establish a ""primed"" enhancer state that is susceptible to reactivation, leading to aberrant PpG expression."	1
"31995729"	"Liquidity Is a Critical Determinant for Selective Autophagy of Protein Condensates.Clearance of biomolecular condensates by selective autophagy is thought to play a crucial role in cellular homeostasis. However, the mechanism underlying selective autophagy of condensates and whether liquidity determines a condensate's susceptibility to degradation by autophagy remain unknown. Here, we show that the selective autophagic cargo aminopeptidase I (Ape1) undergoes phase separation to form semi-liquid droplets. The Ape1-specific receptor protein Atg19 localizes to the surface of Ape1 droplets both in vitro and in vivo, with the ""floatability"" of Atg19 preventing its penetration into droplets. In vitro reconstitution experiments reveal that Atg19 and lipidated Atg8 are necessary and sufficient for selective sequestration of Ape1 droplets by membranes. This sequestration is impaired by mutational solidification of Ape1 droplets or diminished ability of Atg19 to float. Taken together, we propose that cargo liquidity and the presence of sufficient amounts of autophagic receptor on cargo are crucial for selective autophagy of biomolecular condensates."	0
"32640234"	"Optimized Tuning of Auditory Inner Hair Cells to Encode Complex Sound through Synergistic Activity of Six Independent K<sup>+</sup> Current Entities.Auditory inner hair cells (IHCs) convert sound vibrations into receptor potentials that drive synaptic transmission. For the precise encoding of sound qualities, receptor potentials are shaped by K<sup>+</sup> conductances tuning the properties of the IHC membrane. Using patch-clamp and computational modeling, we unravel this membrane specialization showing that IHCs express an exclusive repertoire of six voltage-dependent K<sup>+</sup> conductances mediated by K<sub>v</sub>1.8, K<sub>v</sub>7.4, K<sub>v</sub>11.1, K<sub>v</sub>12.1, and BK<sub>Ca</sub> channels. All channels are active at rest but are triggered differentially during sound stimulation. This enables non-saturating tuning over a far larger potential range than in IHCs expressing fewer current entities. Each conductance contributes to optimizing responses, but the combined activity of all channels synergistically improves phase locking and the dynamic range of intensities that IHCs can encode. Conversely, hypothetical simpler IHCs appear limited to encode only certain aspects (frequency or intensity). The exclusive channel repertoire of IHCs thus constitutes an evolutionary adaptation to encode complex sound through multifaceted receptor potentials."	0
"32792353"	"The Daam2-VHL-Nedd4 axis governs developmental and regenerative oligodendrocyte differentiation.Dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS) enables pathogenic accumulation of disease-driving proteins in neurons across a host of neurological disorders. However, whether and how the UPS contributes to oligodendrocyte dysfunction and repair after white matter injury (WMI) remains undefined. Here we show that the E3 ligase VHL interacts with Daam2 and their mutual antagonism regulates oligodendrocyte differentiation during development. Using proteomic analysis of the Daam2-VHL complex coupled with conditional genetic knockout mouse models, we further discovered that the E3 ubiquitin ligase <i>Nedd4</i> is required for developmental myelination through stabilization of VHL via K63-linked ubiquitination. Furthermore, studies in mouse demyelination models and white matter lesions from patients with multiple sclerosis corroborate the function of this pathway during remyelination after WMI. Overall, these studies provide evidence that a signaling axis involving key UPS components contributes to oligodendrocyte development and repair and reveal a new role for <i>Nedd4</i> in glial biology."	1
"32651234"	"The chaperone Hsp70 is a BH3 receptor activated by the pro-apoptotic Bim to stabilize anti-apoptotic clients.The chaperone heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is crucial for avoiding protein misfolding under stress, but is also up-regulated in many kinds of cancers, where its ability to buffer cellular stress prevents apoptosis. Previous research has suggested Hsp70 interacts with pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins, including Bim and Bax. However, a definitive demonstration of this interaction awaits, and insights into the structural basis and molecular mechanism remain unclear. Earlier studies have identified a Bcl-2 homology 3 (BH3) domain present in Bcl-2 family members that engages receptors to stimulate apoptosis. We now show that Hsp70 physically interacts with pro-apoptotic multidomain and BH3-only proteins via a BH3 domain, thereby serving as a novel BH3 receptor, using <i>in vitro</i> fluorescent polarization (FP), isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), and cell-based co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) experiments, <sup>1</sup>H-<sup>15</sup>N-transverse relaxation optimized spectroscopy (TROSY-HSQC), trypsin proteolysis, ATPase activity, and denatured rhodanese aggregation measurements further demonstrated that BimBH3 binds to a novel allosteric site in the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD) of Hsp70, by which Bim acts as a positive co-chaperone to promote the ATPase activity and chaperone functions. A dual role of Hsp70's anti-apoptotic function was revealed that when it keeps Bim in check to inhibit apoptosis, it simultaneously stabilizes oncogenic clients including AKT and Raf-1 with the aid of Bim. Two faces of Bim in cell fate regulation were revealed that in opposite to its well-established pro-apoptotic activator role, Bim could help the folding of oncogenic proteins."	1
"32636303"	"Interleukin-6-mediated epigenetic control of the VEGFR2 gene induces disorganized angiogenesis in human breast tumors.Disorganized vessels in the tumor vasculature lead to impaired perfusion, resulting in reduced accessibility to immune cells and chemotherapeutic drugs. In the breast tumor-stroma interplay, paracrine factors such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) often facilitate disordered angiogenesis. We show here that epigenetic mechanisms regulate the crosstalk between IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) signaling pathways in myoepithelial (CD10<sup>+</sup>) and endothelial (CD31<sup>+</sup>, CD105<sup>+</sup>, CD146<sup>+</sup>, and CD133<sup>-</sup>) cells isolated from malignant and nonmalignant tissues of clinically characterized human breast tumors. Tumor endothelial (Endo-T) cells in 3D cultures exhibited higher VEGFR2 expression levels, accelerated migration, invasion, and disorganized sprout formation in response to elevated IL-6 levels secreted by tumor myoepithelial (Epi-T) cells. Constitutively, compared with normal endothelial (Endo-N) cells, Endo-T cells differentially expressed DNA methyltransferase isoforms and had increased levels of IL-6 signaling intermediates such as IL-6R and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Upon IL-6 treatment, Endo-N and Endo-T cells displayed altered expression of the DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) isoform. Mechanistic studies revealed that IL-6 induced proteasomal degradation of DNMT1, but not of DNMT3A and DNMT3B and subsequently led to promoter hypomethylation and expression/activation of <i>VEGFR2.</i> IL-6-induced VEGFR2 up-regulation was inhibited by overexpression of DNMT1. Transfection of a dominant-negative STAT3 mutant, but not of STAT1, abrogated VEGFR2 expression. Our results indicate that in the breast tumor microenvironment, IL-6 secreted from myoepithelial cells influences DNMT1 stability, induces the expression of VEGFR2 in endothelial cells via a promoter methylation-dependent mechanism, and leads to disordered angiogenesis."	1
"32647011"	"The key royal jelly component 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid protects against bone loss by inhibiting NF-κB signaling downstream of FFAR4.The supplementation of royal jelly (RJ) is known to provide a variety of health benefits, including anti-inflammatory and anti-obesity effects. RJ treatment also reportedly protects against bone loss, but no single factor in RJ has yet been identified as an anti-osteoporosis agent. Here we fractionated RJ and identified 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid (10H2DA) as a key component involved in inhibiting osteoclastogenesis based on mass spectrometric analysis. We further demonstrated free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4) as directly interacting with 10H2DA; binding of 10H2DA to FFAR4 on osteoclasts inhibited receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) ligand (RANKL)-induced activation of NF-κB signaling, thereby attenuating the induction of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) c1, a key transcription factor for osteoclastogenesis. Oral administration of 10H2DA attenuated bone resorption in ovariectomized mice. These results suggest a potential therapeutic approach of targeting osteoclast differentiation by the supplementation of RJ, and specifically 10H2DA, in cases of pathological bone loss such as occur in postmenopausal osteoporosis."	1
"32375050"	"LGR4, Not LGR5, Enhances hPSC Hematopoiesis by Facilitating Mesoderm Induction via TGF-Beta Signaling Activation.Attempts to generate functional blood cells from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) remain largely unsuccessful, mainly due to the lack of understanding of the regulatory network of human hematopoiesis. In this study, we identified leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor 4 (LGR4) as an essential regulator of early hematopoietic differentiation of hPSCs. The deletion of LGR4 severely impairs mesoderm development, thereby limiting hematopoietic differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. In contrast, LGR5 is dispensable for hPSC hematopoiesis. The four R-spondin proteins show differential activities and dependencies on LGR4 in hematopoietic differentiation. The deletion of LGR4 almost entirely abolishes the enhancement induced by R-spondin1 and R-spondin3, but not R-spondin2. In addition, ZNRF3 is required for the response of R-spondin1-R-spondin3. At the mechanistic level, LGR4 regulates transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling to control hematopoietic differentiation. Together, our results reveal vital roles of LGR4 in hematopoietic development and uncover distinct functions and underlying mechanisms for R-spondins."	1
"32668240"	"Systematic Characterization of Recurrent Genomic Alterations in Cyclin-Dependent Kinases Reveals Potential Therapeutic Strategies for Cancer Treatment.Recurrent copy-number alterations, mutations, and transcript fusions of the genes encoding CDKs/cyclins are characterized in >10,000 tumors. Genomic alterations of CDKs/cyclins are dominantly driven by copy number aberrations. In contrast to cell-cycle-related CDKs/cyclins, which are globally amplified, transcriptional CDKs/cyclins recurrently lose copy numbers across cancers. Although mutations and transcript fusions are relatively rare events, CDK12 exhibits recurrent mutations in multiple cancers. Among the transcriptional CDKs, CDK7 and CDK12 show the most significant copy number loss and mutation, respectively. Their genomic alterations are correlated with increased sensitivities to DNA-damaging drugs. Inhibition of CDK7 preferentially represses the expression of genes in the DNA-damage-repair pathways and impairs the activity of homologous recombination. Low-dose CDK7 inhibitor treatment sensitizes cancer cells to PARP inhibitor-induced DNA damage and cell death. Our analysis provides genomic information for identification and prioritization of drug targets for CDKs and reveals rationales for treatment strategies."	0
"32402271"	"The Histone Methyltransferase G9a Controls Axon Growth by Targeting the RhoA Signaling Pathway.The generation of axonal and dendritic domains is critical for brain circuitry assembly and physiology. Negative players, such as the RhoA-Rho coiled-coil-associated protein kinase (ROCK) signaling pathway, restrain axon development and polarization. Surprisingly, the genetic control of neuronal polarity has remained largely unexplored. Here, we report that, in primary cultured neurons, expression of the histone methyltransferase G9a and nuclear translocation of its major splicing isoform (G9a/E10+) peak at the time of axon formation. RNAi suppression of G9a/E10+ or pharmacological blockade of G9a constrains neuronal migration, axon initiation, and the establishment of neuronal polarity in situ and in vitro. Inhibition of G9a function upregulates RhoA-ROCK activity by increasing the expression of Lfc, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA. Together, these results identify G9a as a player in neuronal polarization."	1
"31471187"	"Co-temporal Force and Fluorescence Measurements Reveal a Ribosomal Gear Shift Mechanism of Translation Regulation by Structured mRNAs.The movement of ribosomes on mRNA is often interrupted by secondary structures that present mechanical barriers and play a central role in translation regulation. We investigate how ribosomes couple their internal conformational changes with the activity of translocation factor EF-G to unwind mRNA secondary structures using high-resolution optical tweezers with single-molecule fluorescence capability. We find that hairpin opening occurs during EF-G-catalyzed translocation and is driven by the forward rotation of the small subunit head. Modulating the magnitude of the hairpin barrier by force shows that ribosomes respond to strong barriers by shifting their operation to an alternative 7-fold-slower kinetic pathway prior to translocation. Shifting into a slow gear results from an allosteric switch in the ribosome that may allow it to exploit thermal fluctuations to overcome mechanical barriers. Finally, we observe that ribosomes occasionally open the hairpin in two successive sub-codon steps, revealing a previously unobserved translocation intermediate."	0
"32571876"	"5'-UTR recruitment of the translation initiation factor eIF4GI or DAP5 drives cap-independent translation of a subset of human mRNAs.During unfavorable conditions (<i>e.g.</i> tumor hypoxia or viral infection), canonical, cap-dependent mRNA translation is suppressed in human cells. Nonetheless, a subset of physiologically important mRNAs (<i>e.g.</i> hypoxia-inducible factor 1α [HIF-1α], fibroblast growth factor 9 [FGF-9], and p53) is still translated by an unknown, cap-independent mechanism. Additionally, expression levels of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4GI (eIF4GI) and of its homolog, death-associated protein 5 (DAP5), are elevated. By examining the 5' UTRs of HIF-1α, FGF-9, and p53 mRNAs and using fluorescence anisotropy binding studies, luciferase reporter-based <i>in vitro</i> translation assays, and mutational analyses, we demonstrate here that eIF4GI and DAP5 specifically bind to the 5' UTRs of these cap-independently translated mRNAs. Surprisingly, we found that the eIF4E-binding domain of eIF4GI increases not only the binding affinity but also the selectivity among these mRNAs. We further demonstrate that the affinities of eIF4GI and DAP5 binding to these 5' UTRs correlate with the efficiency with which these factors drive cap-independent translation of these mRNAs. Integrating the results of our binding and translation assays, we conclude that eIF4GI or DAP5 is critical for recruitment of a specific subset of mRNAs to the ribosome, providing mechanistic insight into their cap-independent translation."	0
"31732456"	"Epigenetic Regulator CoREST Controls Social Behavior in Ants.Ants acquire distinct morphological and behavioral phenotypes arising from a common genome, underscoring the importance of epigenetic regulation. In Camponotus floridanus, ""Major"" workers defend the colony, but can be epigenetically reprogrammed to forage for food analogously to ""Minor"" workers. Here, we utilize reprogramming to investigate natural behavioral specification. Reprogramming of Majors upregulates Minor-biased genes and downregulates Major-biased genes, engaging molecular pathways fundamental to foraging behavior. We discover the neuronal corepressor for element-1-silencing transcription factor (CoREST) is upregulated upon reprogramming and required for the epigenetic switch to foraging. Genome-wide profiling during reprogramming reveals CoREST represses expression of enzymes that degrade juvenile hormone (JH), a hormone elevated upon reprogramming. High CoREST, low JH-degrader expression, and high JH levels are mirrored in natural Minors, revealing parallel mechanisms of natural and reprogrammed foraging. These results unveil chromatin regulation via CoREST as central to programming of ant social behavior, with potential far-reaching implications for behavioral epigenetics."	0
"32460013"	"MKRN2 Physically Interacts with GLE1 to Regulate mRNA Export and Zebrafish Retinal Development.The mammalian mRNA nuclear export process is thought to terminate at the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex through ribonucleoprotein remodeling. We conduct a stringent affinity-purification mass-spectrometry-based screen of the physical interactions of human RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligases. The resulting protein-interaction network reveals interactions between the RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase MKRN2 and GLE1, a DEAD-box helicase activator implicated in mRNA export termination. We assess MKRN2 epistasis with GLE1 in a zebrafish model. Morpholino-mediated knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9-based knockout of MKRN2 partially rescue retinal developmental defects seen upon GLE1 depletion, consistent with a functional association between GLE1 and MKRN2. Using ribonomic approaches, we show that MKRN2 binds selectively to the 3' UTR of a diverse subset of mRNAs and that nuclear export of MKRN2-associated mRNAs is enhanced upon knockdown of MKRN2. Taken together, we suggest that MKRN2 interacts with GLE1 to selectively regulate mRNA nuclear export and retinal development."	1
"32579923"	"Microglia Dysfunction Caused by the Loss of Rhoa Disrupts Neuronal Physiology and Leads to Neurodegeneration.Nervous tissue homeostasis requires the regulation of microglia activity. Using conditional gene targeting in mice, we demonstrate that genetic ablation of the small GTPase Rhoa in adult microglia is sufficient to trigger spontaneous microglia activation, producing a neurological phenotype (including synapse and neuron loss, impairment of long-term potentiation [LTP], formation of β-amyloid plaques, and memory deficits). Mechanistically, loss of Rhoa in microglia triggers Src activation and Src-mediated tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, leading to excitotoxic glutamate secretion. Inhibiting Src in microglia Rhoa-deficient mice attenuates microglia dysregulation and the ensuing neurological phenotype. We also find that the Rhoa/Src signaling pathway is disrupted in microglia of the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer disease and that low doses of Aβ oligomers trigger microglia neurotoxic polarization through the disruption of Rhoa-to-Src signaling. Overall, our results indicate that disturbing Rho GTPase signaling in microglia can directly cause neurodegeneration."	1
"30846317"	"CHP1 Regulates Compartmentalized Glycerolipid Synthesis by Activating GPAT4.Cells require a constant supply of fatty acids to survive and proliferate. Fatty acids incorporate into membrane and storage glycerolipids through a series of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) enzymes, but how these enzymes are regulated is not well understood. Here, using a combination of CRISPR-based genetic screens and unbiased lipidomics, we identified calcineurin B homologous protein 1 (CHP1) as a major regulator of ER glycerolipid synthesis. Loss of CHP1 severely reduces fatty acid incorporation and storage in mammalian cells and invertebrates. Mechanistically, CHP1 binds and activates GPAT4, which catalyzes the initial rate-limiting step in glycerolipid synthesis. GPAT4 activity requires CHP1 to be N-myristoylated, forming a key molecular interface between the two proteins. Interestingly, upon CHP1 loss, the peroxisomal enzyme, GNPAT, partially compensates for the loss of ER lipid synthesis, enabling cell proliferation. Thus, our work identifies a conserved regulator of glycerolipid metabolism and reveals plasticity in lipid synthesis of proliferating cells."	1
"31348878"	"Site-Programmable Transposition: Shifting the Paradigm for CRISPR-Cas Systems.Discoveries by Klompe et al. (2019) and Strecker et al. (2019) elucidate distinct CRISPR-Cas mechanisms for site-specific programmable transposition in prokaryotic organisms."	0
"32518155"	"The J-elongated conformation of β<sub>2</sub>-glycoprotein I predominates in solution: implications for our understanding of antiphospholipid syndrome.β<sub>2</sub>-Glycoprotein I (β<sub>2</sub>GPI) is an abundant plasma protein displaying phospholipid-binding properties. Because it binds phospholipids, it is a target of antiphospholipid antibodies (aPLs) in antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), a life-threatening autoimmune thrombotic disease. Indeed, aPLs prefer membrane-bound β<sub>2</sub>GPI to that in solution. β<sub>2</sub>GPI exists in two almost equally populated redox states: oxidized, in which all the disulfide bonds are formed, and reduced, in which one or more disulfide bonds are broken. Furthermore, β<sub>2</sub>GPI can adopt multiple conformations (<i>i.e.</i> J-elongated, S-twisted, and O-circular). While strong evidence indicates that the J-form is the structure bound to aPLs, which conformation exists and predominates in solution remains controversial, and so is the conformational pathway leading to the bound state. Here, we report that human recombinant β<sub>2</sub>GPI purified under native conditions is oxidized. Moreover, under physiological pH and salt concentrations, this oxidized form adopts a J-elongated, flexible conformation, not circular or twisted, in which the N-terminal domain I (DI) and the C-terminal domain V (DV) are exposed to the solvent. Consistent with this model, binding kinetics and mutagenesis experiments revealed that in solution the J-form interacts with negatively charged liposomes and with MBB2, a monoclonal anti-DI antibody that recapitulates most of the features of pathogenic aPLs. We conclude that the preferential binding of aPLs to phospholipid-bound β<sub>2</sub>GPI arises from the ability of its preexisting J-form to accumulate on the membranes, thereby offering an ideal environment for aPL binding. We propose that targeting the J-form of β<sub>2</sub>GPI provides a strategy to block pathogenic aPLs in APS."	0
"31968244"	"Functional and Evolutionary Diversification of Otx2 and Crx in Vertebrate Retinal Photoreceptor and Bipolar Cell Development.Otx family homeoproteins Otx2 and Crx are expressed in photoreceptor precursor cells and bind to the common DNA-binding consensus sequence, but these two proteins have distinct functions in retinal development. To examine the functional substitutability of Otx2 and Crx, we generate knockin mouse lines in which Crx is replaced by Otx2 and vice versa. We find that Otx2 and Crx cannot be substituted in photoreceptor development. Subsequently, we investigate the function of Otx2 in photoreceptor and bipolar cell development. High Otx2 levels induce photoreceptor cell fate but not bipolar cell fate, whereas reduced Otx2 expression impairs bipolar cell maturation and survival. Furthermore, we identify Otx2 and Crx in the lamprey genome by using synteny analysis, suggesting that the last common ancestor of vertebrates possesses both Otx2 and Crx. We find that the retinal Otx2 expression pattern is different between lampreys and mice, suggesting that neofunctionalization of Otx2 occurred in the jawed vertebrate lineage."	0
"32294429"	"Progesterone Receptor Serves the Ovary as a Trigger of Ovulation and a Terminator of Inflammation.Ovulation is triggered by the gonadotropin surge that induces the expression of two key genes, progesterone receptor (Pgr) and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2), in the granulosa cells of preovulatory follicles. Their gene products PGR and PTGS2 activate two separate pathways that are both essential for successful ovulation. Here, we show that the PGR plays an additional essential role: it attenuates ovulatory inflammation by diminishing the gonadotropin surge-induced Ptgs2 expression. PGR indirectly terminates Ptgs2 expression and PGE2 synthesis in granulosa cells by inhibiting the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), a transcription factor required for Ptgs2 expression. When the expression of PGR is ablated in granulosa cells, the ovary undergoes a hyperinflammatory condition manifested by excessive PGE2 synthesis, immune cell infiltration, oxidative damage, and neoplastic transformation of ovarian cells. The PGR-driven termination of PTGS2 expression may protect the ovary from ovulatory inflammation."	1
"30581143"	"Genome-wide CRISPR Analysis Identifies Substrate-Specific Conjugation Modules in ER-Associated Degradation.The ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) maintains the integrity of the proteome by selectively degrading misfolded or mis-assembled proteins, but the rules that govern how conformationally defective proteins in the secretory pathway are selected from the structurally and topologically diverse constellation of correctly folded membrane and secretory proteins for efficient degradation by cytosolic proteasomes is not well understood. Here, we combine parallel pooled genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 forward genetic screening with a highly quantitative and sensitive protein turnover assay to discover a previously undescribed collaboration between membrane-embedded cytoplasmic ubiquitin E3 ligases to conjugate heterotypic branched or mixed ubiquitin (Ub) chains on substrates of endoplasmic-reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD). These findings demonstrate that parallel CRISPR analysis can be used to deconvolve highly complex cell biological processes and identify new biochemical pathways in protein quality control."	0
"32905773"	"Malic Enzyme Couples Mitochondria with Aerobic Glycolysis in Osteoblasts.The metabolic program of osteoblasts, the chief bone-making cells, remains incompletely understood. Here in murine calvarial cells, we establish that osteoblast differentiation under aerobic conditions is coupled with a marked increase in glucose consumption and lactate production but reduced oxygen consumption. As a result, aerobic glycolysis accounts for approximately 80% of the ATP production in mature osteoblasts. In vivo tracing with <sup>13</sup>C-labeled glucose in the mouse shows that glucose in bone is readily metabolized to lactate but not organic acids in the TCA cycle. Glucose tracing in osteoblast cultures reveals that pyruvate is carboxylated to form malate integral to the malate-aspartate shuttle. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) identifies Me2, encoding the mitochondrial NAD-dependent isoform of malic enzyme, as being specifically upregulated during osteoblast differentiation. Knockdown of Me2 markedly reduces the glycolytic flux and impairs osteoblast proliferation and differentiation. Thus, the mitochondrial malic enzyme functionally couples the mitochondria with aerobic glycolysis in osteoblasts."	0
"32579917"	"Local miRNA-Dependent Translational Control of GABA<sub>A</sub>R Synthesis during Inhibitory Long-Term Potentiation.Molecular mechanisms underlying plasticity at brain inhibitory synapses remain poorly characterized. Increased postsynaptic clustering of GABA<sub>A</sub> receptors (GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs) rapidly strengthens inhibition during inhibitory long-term potentiation (iLTP). However, it is unclear how synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>R clustering is maintained to sustain iLTP. Here, we identify a role for miR376c in regulating the translation of mRNAs encoding the synaptic α1 and γ2 GABA<sub>A</sub>R subunits, GABRA1 and GABRG2, respectively. Following iLTP induction, transcriptional repression of miR376c is induced through a calcineurin-NFAT-HDAC signaling pathway and promotes increased translation and clustering of synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs. This pathway is essential for the long-term expression of iLTP and is blocked by miR376c overexpression, specifically impairing inhibitory synaptic strength. Finally, we show that local de novo synthesis of synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs occurs exclusively in dendrites and in a miR376c-dependent manner following iLTP. Together, this work describes a local post-transcriptional mechanism that regulates inhibitory synaptic plasticity via miRNA control of dendritic protein synthesis."	1
"32579915"	"Precise Temporal Regulation of Post-transcriptional Repressors Is Required for an Orderly Drosophila Maternal-to-Zygotic Transition.In animal embryos, the maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT) hands developmental control from maternal to zygotic gene products. We show that the maternal proteome represents more than half of the protein-coding capacity of Drosophila melanogaster's genome, and that 2% of this proteome is rapidly degraded during the MZT. Cleared proteins include the post-transcriptional repressors Cup, Trailer hitch (TRAL), Maternal expression at 31B (ME31B), and Smaug (SMG). Although the ubiquitin-proteasome system is necessary for clearance of these repressors, distinct E3 ligase complexes target them: the C-terminal to Lis1 Homology (CTLH) complex targets Cup, TRAL, and ME31B for degradation early in the MZT and the Skp/Cullin/F-box-containing (SCF) complex targets SMG at the end of the MZT. Deleting the C-terminal 233 amino acids of SMG abrogates F-box protein interaction and confers immunity to degradation. Persistent SMG downregulates zygotic re-expression of mRNAs whose maternal contribution is degraded by SMG. Thus, clearance of SMG permits an orderly MZT."	0
"32402277"	"Nutrient-Driven O-GlcNAcylation Controls DNA Damage Repair Signaling and Stem/Progenitor Cell Homeostasis.Stem/progenitor cells exhibit high proliferation rates, elevated nutrient uptake, altered metabolic flux, and stress-induced genome instability. O-GlcNAcylation is an essential post-translational modification mediated by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) and O-GlcNAcase (OGA), which act in a nutrient- and stress-responsive manner. The precise role of O-GlcNAc in adult stem cells and the relationship between O-GlcNAc and the DNA damage response (DDR) is poorly understood. Here, we show that hyper-O-GlcNacylation leads to elevated insulin signaling, hyperproliferation, and DDR activation that mimic the glucose- and oxidative-stress-induced response. We discover a feedback mechanism involving key downstream effectors of DDR, ATM, ATR, and CHK1/2 that regulates OGT stability to promote O-GlcNAcylation and elevate DDR. This O-GlcNAc-dependent regulatory pathway is critical for maintaining gut homeostasis in Drosophila and the DDR in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Our findings reveal a conserved mechanistic link among O-GlcNAc cycling, stem cell self-renewal, and DDR with profound implications for stem-cell-derived diseases including cancer."	1
"32402252"	"KAP1 Is a Chromatin Reader that Couples Steps of RNA Polymerase II Transcription to Sustain Oncogenic Programs.Precise control of the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) cycle, including pausing and pause release, maintains transcriptional homeostasis and organismal functions. Despite previous work to understand individual transcription steps, we reveal a mechanism that integrates RNA Pol II cycle transitions. Surprisingly, KAP1/TRIM28 uses a previously uncharacterized chromatin reader cassette to bind hypo-acetylated histone 4 tails at promoters, guaranteeing continuous progression of RNA Pol II entry to and exit from the pause state. Upon chromatin docking, KAP1 first associates with RNA Pol II and then recruits a pathway-specific transcription factor (SMAD2) in response to cognate ligands, enabling gene-selective CDK9-dependent pause release. This coupling mechanism is exploited by tumor cells to aberrantly sustain transcriptional programs commonly dysregulated in cancer patients. The discovery of a factor integrating transcription steps expands the functional repertoire by which chromatin readers operate and provides mechanistic understanding of transcription regulation, offering alternative therapeutic opportunities to target transcriptional dysregulation."	1
"32485148"	"ERK2 Phosphorylates PFAS to Mediate Posttranslational Control of De Novo Purine Synthesis.The RAS-ERK/MAPK (RAS-extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway integrates growth-promoting signals to stimulate cell growth and proliferation, at least in part, through alterations in metabolic gene expression. However, examples of direct and rapid regulation of the metabolic pathways by the RAS-ERK pathway remain elusive. We find that physiological and oncogenic ERK signaling activation leads to acute metabolic flux stimulation through the de novo purine synthesis pathway, thereby increasing building block availability for RNA and DNA synthesis, which is required for cell growth and proliferation. We demonstrate that ERK2, but not ERK1, phosphorylates the purine synthesis enzyme PFAS (phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase) at T619 in cells to stimulate de novo purine synthesis. The expression of nonphosphorylatable PFAS (T619A) decreases purine synthesis, RAS-dependent cancer cell-colony formation, and tumor growth. Thus, ERK2-mediated PFAS phosphorylation facilitates the increase in nucleic acid synthesis required for anabolic cell growth and proliferation."	1
"31000437"	"Regulation of UCP1 and Mitochondrial Metabolism in Brown Adipose Tissue by Reversible Succinylation.Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is rich in mitochondria and plays important roles in energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. We find that levels of mitochondrial protein succinylation and malonylation are high in BAT and subject to physiological and genetic regulation. BAT-specific deletion of Sirt5, a mitochondrial desuccinylase and demalonylase, results in dramatic increases in global protein succinylation and malonylation. Mass spectrometry-based quantification of succinylation reveals that Sirt5 regulates the key thermogenic protein in BAT, UCP1. Mutation of the two succinylated lysines in UCP1 to acyl-mimetic glutamine and glutamic acid significantly decreases its stability and activity. The reduced function of UCP1 and other proteins in Sirt5KO BAT results in impaired mitochondria respiration, defective mitophagy, and metabolic inflexibility. Thus, succinylation of UCP1 and other mitochondrial proteins plays an important role in BAT and in regulation of energy homeostasis."	1
"32187545"	"Nucleus Accumbens Cell Type- and Input-Specific Suppression of Unproductive Reward Seeking.The nucleus accumbens (NAc) contributes to behavioral inhibition and compulsions, but circuit mechanisms are unclear. Recent evidence suggests that amygdala and thalamic inputs exert opposing control over behavior, much like direct and indirect pathway output neurons. Accordingly, opponent processes between these NAc inputs or cell types may underlie efficient reward seeking. We assess the contributions of these circuit elements to mouse operant behavior during recurring conditions when reward is and is not available. Although direct pathway stimulation is rewarding and indirect pathway stimulation aversive, the activity of both cell types is elevated during periods of behavioral suppression, and the inhibition of either cell-type selectively increases unproductive reward seeking. Amygdala and thalamic inputs are also necessary for behavioral suppression, even though they both support self-stimulation and innervate different NAc subregions. These data suggest that efficient reward seeking relies on complementary activity across NAc cell types and inputs rather than opponent processes between them."	0
"32579940"	"CD28 Regulates Metabolic Fitness for Long-Lived Plasma Cell Survival.Durable humoral immunity against epidemic infectious disease requires the survival of long-lived plasma cells (LLPCs). LLPC longevity is dependent on metabolic programs distinct from short-lived plasma cells (SLPCs); however, the mechanistic basis for this difference is unclear. We have previously shown that CD28, the prototypic T cell costimulatory receptor, is expressed on both LLPCs and SLPCs but is essential only for LLPC survival. Here we show that CD28 transduces pro-survival signaling specifically in LLPCs through differential SLP76 expression. CD28 signaling in LLPCs increased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass/respiration, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Unexpectedly, CD28-mediated regulation of mitochondrial respiration, NF-κB activation, and survival was ROS dependent. IRF4, a target of NF-κB, was upregulated by CD28 activation in LLPCs and decreased IRF4 levels correlated with decreased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass, ROS, and CD28-mediated survival. Altogether, these data demonstrate that CD28 signaling induces a ROS-dependent metabolic program required for LLPC survival."	1
"31857346"	"CDK7 regulates organ size and tumor growth by safeguarding the Hippo pathway effector Yki/Yap/Taz in the nucleus.Hippo signaling controls organ size and tumor progression through a conserved pathway leading to nuclear translocation of the transcriptional effector Yki/Yap/Taz. Most of our understanding of Hippo signaling pertains to its cytoplasmic regulation, but how the pathway is controlled in the nucleus remains poorly understood. Here we uncover an evolutionarily conserved mechanism by which CDK7 promotes Yki/Yap/Taz stabilization in the nucleus to sustain Hippo pathway outputs. We found that a modular E3 ubiquitin ligase complex CRL4<sup>DCAF12</sup> binds and targets Yki/Yap/Taz for ubiquitination and degradation, whereas CDK7 phosphorylates Yki/Yap/Taz at S169/S128/S90 to inhibit CRL4<sup>DCAF12</sup> recruitment, leading to Yki/Yap/Taz stabilization. As a consequence, inactivation of CDK7 reduced organ size and inhibited tumor growth, which could be reversed by restoring Yki/Yap activity. Our study identifies an unanticipated layer of Hippo pathway regulation, defines a novel mechanism by which CDK7 regulates tissue growth, and implies CDK7 as a drug target for Yap/Taz-driven cancer."	1
"32780989"	"GIT/PIX Condensates Are Modular and Ideal for Distinct Compartmentalized Cell Signaling.Enzymes or enzyme complexes can be concentrated in different cellular loci to modulate distinct functional processes in response to specific signals. How cells condense and compartmentalize enzyme complexes for spatiotemporally distinct cellular events is not well understood. Here we discover that specific and tight association of GIT1 and β-Pix, a pair of GTPase regulatory enzymes, leads to phase separation of the complex without additional scaffolding molecules. GIT1/β-Pix condensates are modular in nature and can be positioned at distinct cellular compartments, such as neuronal synapses, focal adhesions, and cell-cell junctions, by upstream adaptors. Guided by the structure of the GIT/PIX complex, we specifically probed the role of phase separation of the enzyme complex in cell migration and synapse formation. Our study suggests that formation of modular enzyme complex condensates via phase separation can dynamically concentrate limited quantities of enzymes to distinct cellular compartments for specific and optimal signaling."	1
"32807902"	"p27 controls Ragulator and mTOR activity in amino acid-deprived cells to regulate the autophagy-lysosomal pathway and coordinate cell cycle and cell growth.Autophagy is a catabolic process whereby cytoplasmic components are degraded within lysosomes, allowing cells to maintain energy homeostasis during nutrient depletion. Several studies reported that the CDK inhibitor p27<sup>Kip1</sup> promotes starvation-induced autophagy by an unknown mechanism. Here we find that p27 controls autophagy via an mTORC1-dependent mechanism in amino acid-deprived cells. During prolonged starvation, a fraction of p27 is recruited to lysosomes, where it interacts with LAMTOR1, a component of the Ragulator complex required for mTORC1 activation. Binding of p27 to LAMTOR1 prevents Ragulator assembly and mTORC1 activation, promoting autophagy. Conversely, p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells exhibit elevated mTORC1 signalling as well as impaired lysosomal activity and autophagy. This is associated with cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB, preventing induction of the lysosomal genes required for lysosome function. LAMTOR1 silencing or mTOR inhibition restores autophagy and induces apoptosis in p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Together, these results reveal a direct coordinated regulation between the cell cycle and cell growth machineries."	1
"32348754"	"Netrin-G1 Regulates Microglial Accumulation along Axons and Supports the Survival of Layer V Neurons in the Postnatal Mouse Brain.Microglia, the resident immune cells of the central nervous system, accumulate along subcerebral projection axons and support neuronal survival during the early postnatal period. It remains unknown how microglia follow an axon-specific distribution pattern to maintain neural circuits. Here, we investigated the mechanisms of microglial accumulation along subcerebral projection axons that were necessary for microglial accumulation in the internal capsule. Screening of molecules involved in this accumulation of microglia to axons of layer V cortical neurons identified netrin-G1, a member of the netrin family of axon guidance molecules with a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchor. Deletion or knockdown of the netrin-G1 gene Ntng1 reduced microglial accumulation and caused loss of cortical neurons. Netrin-G1 ligand-Ngl1 knockout-mice-derived microglia showed reduced accumulation along the axons compared with wild-type microglia. Thus, microglia accumulate around the subcerebral projection axons via NGL1-netrin-G1 signaling and support neuronal survival. Our observations unveil bidirectional neurotrophic interactions between neurons and microglia."	0
"32668246"	"Multiomics Investigation Revealing the Characteristics of HIV-1-Infected Cells In Vivo.For eradication of HIV-1 infection, it is important to elucidate the detailed features and heterogeneity of HIV-1-infected cells in vivo. To reveal multiple characteristics of HIV-1-producing cells in vivo, we use a hematopoietic-stem-cell-transplanted humanized mouse model infected with GFP-encoding replication-competent HIV-1. We perform multiomics experiments using recently developed technology to identify the features of HIV-1-infected cells. Genome-wide HIV-1 integration-site analysis reveals that productive HIV-1 infection tends to occur in cells with viral integration into transcriptionally active genomic regions. Bulk transcriptome analysis reveals that a high level of viral mRNA is transcribed in HIV-1-infected cells. Moreover, single-cell transcriptome analysis shows the heterogeneity of HIV-1-infected cells, including CXCL13<sup>high</sup> cells and a subpopulation with low expression of interferon-stimulated genes, which can contribute to efficient viral spread in vivo. Our findings describe multiple characteristics of HIV-1-producing cells in vivo, which could provide clues for the development of an HIV-1 cure."	0
"31519521"	"SUMO-Chain-Regulated Proteasomal Degradation Timing Exemplified in DNA Replication Initiation.Similar to ubiquitin, SUMO forms chains, but the identity of SUMO-chain-modified factors and the purpose of this modification remain largely unknown. Here, we identify the budding yeast SUMO protease Ulp2, able to disassemble SUMO chains, as a DDK interactor enriched at replication origins that promotes DNA replication initiation. Replication-engaged DDK is SUMOylated on chromatin, becoming a degradation-prone substrate when Ulp2 no longer protects it against SUMO chain assembly. Specifically, SUMO chains channel DDK for SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase Slx5/Slx8-mediated and Cdc48 segregase-assisted proteasomal degradation. Importantly, the SUMOylation-defective ddk-KR mutant rescues inefficient replication onset and MCM activation in cells lacking Ulp2, suggesting that SUMO chains time DDK degradation. Using two unbiased proteomic approaches, we further identify subunits of the MCM helicase and other factors as SUMO-chain-modified degradation-prone substrates of Ulp2 and Slx5/Slx8. We thus propose SUMO-chain/Ulp2-protease-regulated proteasomal degradation as a mechanism that times the availability of functionally engaged SUMO-modified protein pools during replication and beyond."	1
"32470318"	"Ectosomal PKM2 Promotes HCC by Inducing Macrophage Differentiation and Remodeling the Tumor Microenvironment.Tumor-derived extracellular vesicles are important mediators of cell-to-cell communication during tumorigenesis. Here, we demonstrated that hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)-derived ectosomes remodel the tumor microenvironment to facilitate HCC progression in an ectosomal PKM2-dependent manner. HCC-derived ectosomal PKM2 induced not only metabolic reprogramming in monocytes but also STAT3 phosphorylation in the nucleus to upregulate differentiation-associated transcription factors, leading to monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation and tumor microenvironment remodeling. In HCC cells, sumoylation of PKM2 induced its plasma membrane targeting and subsequent ectosomal excretion via interactions with ARRDC1. The PKM2-ARRDC1 association in HCC was reinforced by macrophage-secreted cytokines/chemokines in a CCL1-CCR8 axis-dependent manner, further facilitating PKM2 excretion from HCC cells to form a feedforward regulatory loop for tumorigenesis. In the clinic, ectosomal PKM2 was clearly detected in the plasma of HCC patients. This study highlights a mechanism by which ectosomal PKM2 remodels the tumor microenvironment and reveals ectosomal PKM2 as a potential diagnostic marker for HCC."	1
"30581142"	"Drp1-Zip1 Interaction Regulates Mitochondrial Quality Surveillance System.Mitophagy, a mitochondrial quality control process for eliminating dysfunctional mitochondria, can be induced by a response of dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) to a reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and mitochondrial division. However, the coordination between MMP and mitochondrial division for selecting the damaged portion of the mitochondrial network is less understood. Here, we found that MMP is reduced focally at a fission site by the Drp1 recruitment, which is initiated by the interaction of Drp1 with mitochondrial zinc transporter Zip1 and Zn<sup>2+</sup> entry through the Zip1-MCU complex. After division, healthy mitochondria restore MMP levels and participate in the fusion-fission cycle again, but mitochondria that fail to restore MMP undergo mitophagy. Thus, interfering with the interaction between Drp1 and Zip1 blocks the reduction of MMP and the subsequent mitophagic selection of damaged mitochondria. These results suggest that Drp1-dependent fission provides selective pressure for eliminating ""bad sectors"" in the mitochondrial network, serving as a mitochondrial quality surveillance system."	1
"30612880"	"Multisite Phosphorylation of S6K1 Directs a Kinase Phospho-code that Determines Substrate Selection.Multisite phosphorylation of kinases can induce on-off or graded regulation of catalytic activity; however, its influence on substrate specificity remains unclear. Here, we show that multisite phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) alters target selection. Agonist-inducible phosphorylation of glutamyl-prolyl tRNA synthetase (EPRS) by S6K1 in monocytes and adipocytes requires not only canonical phosphorylation at Thr<sup>389</sup> by mTORC1 but also phosphorylation at Ser<sup>424</sup> and Ser<sup>429</sup> in the C terminus by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). S6K1 phosphorylation at these additional sites induces a conformational switch and is essential for high-affinity binding and phosphorylation of EPRS, but not canonical S6K1 targets, e.g., ribosomal protein S6. Unbiased proteomic analysis identified additional targets phosphorylated by multisite phosphorylated S6K1 in insulin-stimulated adipocytes-namely, coenzyme A synthase, lipocalin 2, and cortactin. Thus, embedded within S6K1 is a target-selective kinase phospho-code that integrates signals from mTORC1 and Cdk5 to direct an insulin-stimulated, post-translational metabolon determining adipocyte lipid metabolism."	1
"32234477"	"Brain Endothelial Cells Are Exquisite Sensors of Age-Related Circulatory Cues.Brain endothelial cells (BECs) are key constituents of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), protecting the brain from pathogens and restricting access of circulatory factors. Yet, because circulatory proteins have prominent age-related effects on adult neurogenesis, neuroinflammation, and cognitive function in mice, we wondered whether BECs receive and potentially relay signals between the blood and brain. Using single-cell RNA sequencing of hippocampal BECs, we discover that capillary BECs-compared with arterial and venous BECs-undergo the greatest transcriptional changes in normal aging, upregulating innate immunity and oxidative stress response pathways. Short-term infusions of aged plasma into young mice recapitulate key aspects of this aging transcriptome, and remarkably, infusions of young plasma into aged mice exert rejuvenation effects on the capillary transcriptome. Together, these findings suggest that the transcriptional age of BECs is exquisitely sensitive to age-related circulatory cues and pinpoint the BBB itself as a promising therapeutic target to treat brain disease."	0
"32433956"	"MAU2 and NIPBL Variants Impair the Heterodimerization of the Cohesin Loader Subunits and Cause Cornelia de Lange Syndrome.The NIPBL/MAU2 heterodimer loads cohesin onto chromatin. Mutations in NIPBL account for most cases of the rare developmental disorder Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS). Here we report a MAU2 variant causing CdLS, a deletion of seven amino acids that impairs the interaction between MAU2 and the NIPBL N terminus. Investigating this interaction, we discovered that MAU2 and the NIPBL N terminus are largely dispensable for normal cohesin and NIPBL function in cells with a NIPBL early truncating mutation. Despite a predicted fatal outcome of an out-of-frame single nucleotide duplication in NIPBL, engineered in two different cell lines, alternative translation initiation yields a form of NIPBL missing N-terminal residues. This form cannot interact with MAU2, but binds DNA and mediates cohesin loading. Altogether, our work reveals that cohesin loading can occur independently of functional NIPBL/MAU2 complexes and highlights a novel mechanism protective against out-of-frame mutations that is potentially relevant for other genetic conditions."	0
"32049010"	"Secreted Pyruvate Kinase M2 Promotes Lung Cancer Metastasis through Activating the Integrin Beta1/FAK Signaling Pathway.Cancer cell-derived secretomes have been documented to play critical roles in cancer progression. Intriguingly, alternative extracellular roles of intracellular proteins are involved in various steps of tumor progression, which can offer strategies to fight cancer. Herein, we identify lung cancer progression-associated secretome signatures using mass spectrometry analysis. Among them, PKM2 is verified to be highly expressed and secreted in lung cancer cells and clinical samples. Functional analyses demonstrates that secreted PKM2 facilitates tumor metastasis. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analysis and functional validation identify integrin β1 as a receptor of secreted PKM2. Mechanistically, secreted PKM2 directly bound to integrin β1 and subsequently activated the FAK/SRC/ERK axis to promote tumor metastasis. Collectively, our findings suggest that PKM2 is a potential serum biomarker for diagnosing lung cancer and that targeting the secreted PKM2-integrin β1 axis can inhibit lung cancer development, which provides evidence of a potential therapeutic strategy in lung cancer."	1
"32348780"	"A Family of Argonaute-Interacting Proteins Gates Nuclear RNAi.Nuclear RNA interference (RNAi) pathways work together with histone modifications to regulate gene expression and enact an adaptive response to transposable RNA elements. In the germline, nuclear RNAi can lead to trans-generational epigenetic inheritance (TEI) of gene silencing. We identified and characterized a family of nuclear Argonaute-interacting proteins (ENRIs) that control the strength and target specificity of nuclear RNAi in C. elegans, ensuring faithful inheritance of epigenetic memories. ENRI-1/2 prevent misloading of the nuclear Argonaute NRDE-3 with small RNAs that normally effect maternal piRNAs, which prevents precocious nuclear translocation of NRDE-3 in the early embryo. Additionally, they are negative regulators of nuclear RNAi triggered from exogenous sources. Loss of ENRI-3, an unstable protein expressed mostly in the male germline, misdirects the RNAi response to transposable elements and impairs TEI. The ENRIs determine the potency and specificity of nuclear RNAi responses by gating small RNAs into specific nuclear Argonautes."	1
"32839551"	"Acetylation-dependent regulation of PD-L1 nuclear translocation dictates the efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.Immunotherapies that target programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and its ligand PD-L1 as well as cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA4) have shown impressive clinical outcomes for multiple tumours. However, only a subset of patients achieves durable responses, suggesting that the mechanisms of the immune checkpoint pathways are not completely understood. Here, we report that PD-L1 translocates from the plasma membrane into the nucleus through interactions with components of the endocytosis and nucleocytoplasmic transport pathways, regulated by p300-mediated acetylation and HDAC2-dependent deacetylation of PD-L1. Moreover, PD-L1 deficiency leads to compromised expression of multiple immune-response-related genes. Genetically or pharmacologically modulating PD-L1 acetylation blocks its nuclear translocation, reprograms the expression of immune-response-related genes and, as a consequence, enhances the anti-tumour response to PD-1 blockade. Thus, our results reveal an acetylation-dependent regulation of PD-L1 nuclear localization that governs immune-response gene expression, and thereby advocate targeting PD-L1 translocation to enhance the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade."	1
"32023472"	"Hyperexcitable Neurons Enable Precise and Persistent Information Encoding in the Superficial Retrosplenial Cortex.The retrosplenial cortex (RSC) is essential for memory and navigation, but the neural codes underlying these functions remain largely unknown. Here, we show that the most prominent cell type in layers 2/3 (L2/3) of the mouse granular RSC is a hyperexcitable, small pyramidal cell. These cells have a low rheobase (LR), high input resistance, lack of spike frequency adaptation, and spike widths intermediate to those of neighboring fast-spiking (FS) inhibitory neurons and regular-spiking (RS) excitatory neurons. LR cells are excitatory but rarely synapse onto neighboring neurons. Instead, L2/3 is a feedforward, not feedback, inhibition-dominated network with dense connectivity between FS cells and from FS to LR neurons. Biophysical models of LR but not RS cells precisely and continuously encode sustained input from afferent postsubicular head-direction cells. Thus, the distinct intrinsic properties of LR neurons can support both the precision and persistence necessary to encode information over multiple timescales in the RSC."	0
"32111741"	"The Parkinson's disease-associated kinase LRRK2 regulates genes required for cell adhesion, polarization, and chemotaxis in activated murine macrophages.Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (<i>LRRK2</i>) encodes a complex protein that includes kinase and GTPase domains. Genome-wide association studies have identified dominant <i>LRRK2</i> alleles that predispose their carriers to late-onset idiotypic Parkinson's disease (PD) and also to autoimmune disorders such as Crohn's disease. Considerable evidence indicates that PD initiation and progression involve activation of innate immune functions in microglia, which are brain-resident macrophages. Here we asked whether LRRK2 modifies inflammatory signaling and how this modification might contribute to PD and Crohn's disease. We used RNA-Seq-based high-resolution transcriptomics to compare gene expression in activated primary macrophages derived from WT and <i>Lrrk2</i> knockout mice. Remarkably, expression of a single gene, Rap guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (<i>Rapgef3</i>), was strongly up-regulated in the absence of LRRK2 and down-regulated in its presence. We observed similar regulation of <i>Rapgef3</i> expression in cells treated with a highly specific inhibitor of LRRK2 protein kinase activity. <i>Rapgef3</i> encodes an exchange protein, activated by cAMP 1 (EPAC-1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor that activates the small GTPase Rap-1. Rap-1 mediates cell adhesion, polarization, and directional motility, and our results indicate that LRRK2 modulates chemotaxis of microglia and macrophages. Dominant PD-associated <i>LRRK2</i> alleles may suppress EPAC-1 activity, further restricting motility and preventing efficient migration of microglia to sites of neuronal damage. Functional analysis <i>in vivo</i> in a subclinical infection model also indicated that Lrrk2 subtly modifies the inflammatory response. These results indicate that LRRK2 modulates the expression of genes involved in murine immune cell chemotaxis."	1
"31914388"	"The Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Delta Regulates Developmental Neurogenesis.PTPRD is a receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase that is genetically associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we asked whether Ptprd mutations cause aberrant neural development by perturbing neurogenesis in the murine cortex. We show that loss of Ptprd causes increases in neurogenic transit-amplifying intermediate progenitor cells and cortical neurons and perturbations in neuronal localization. These effects are intrinsic to neural precursor cells since acute Ptprd knockdown causes similar perturbations. PTPRD mediates these effects by dephosphorylating receptor tyrosine kinases, including TrkB and PDGFRβ, and loss of Ptprd causes the hyperactivation of TrkB and PDGFRβ and their downstream MEK-ERK signaling pathway in neural precursor cells. Moreover, inhibition of aberrant TrkB or MEK activation rescues the increased neurogenesis caused by knockdown or homozygous loss of Ptprd. These results suggest that PTPRD regulates receptor tyrosine kinases to ensure appropriate numbers of intermediate progenitor cells and neurons, suggesting a mechanism for its genetic association with neurodevelopmental disorders."	1
"32268103"	"Shank2 Binds to aPKC and Controls Tight Junction Formation with Rap1 Signaling during Establishment of Epithelial Cell Polarity.Epithelial cells establish apicobasal polarity by forming tight junctions (TJs) at the apical-lateral boundary, which play fundamental roles in physiological functions. An evolutionarily conserved atypical protein kinase C (aPKC)-partitioning defective (PAR) complex functions as a platform for TJ assembly during cell polarity establishment. However, how this complex converts the spatial cues into a subsequent active unit is unclear. Here, we identify an epithelial isoform of Shank2 as a mediator of the aPKC-PAR complex. Shank2 binds to and colocalizes with aPKC at apical junctional regions of polarized epithelial cells. Shank2 knockdown results in defects in TJ formation. Mechanistically, we find that the N-terminal SPN domain is required for the junctional localization of Shank2 and binds to the active form of Rap1 small GTPase, which is involved in TJ formation. Our findings suggest that a close physical and functional relationship between aPKC and Shank2-active Rap1 signaling serves as the platform for TJ assembly to regulate epithelial cell polarity."	1
"32859721"	"To cut or not to cut: New rules for proteolytic shedding of membrane proteins.Sheddases are specialized proteases that control the abundance and function of membrane proteins by cleaving their substrate's extracellular domain (ectodomain), a process known as shedding. Hundreds of shedding substrates have been identified, but little is known about the mechanisms that govern ectodomain shedding. Iwagishi <i>et al.</i> now report that negatively charged amino acids in the membrane-proximal juxtamembrane domain of substrates make them resistant to shedding by the metalloprotease ADAM17. These findings will help researchers better understand the regulation of shedding and may aid in the development of drugs targeting sheddases."	0
"31299207"	"Bacterial Killers Engineered to Exterminate Pathogenic Microbes.A new study reports a synthetic bacterium that uses conjugation to transfer toxic genes that selectively kill pathogenic cells. The work represents a novel strategy for targeting pathogens, which could be the basis for a new generation of precision antimicrobials."	0
"32553170"	"Decoding the Transcriptional Response to Ischemic Stroke in Young and Aged Mouse Brain.Ischemic stroke is a well-recognized disease of aging, yet it is unclear how the age-dependent vulnerability occurs and what are the underlying mechanisms. To address these issues, we perform a comprehensive RNA-seq analysis of aging, ischemic stroke, and their interaction in 3- and 18-month-old mice. We assess differential gene expression across injury status and age, estimate cell type proportion changes, assay the results against a range of transcriptional signatures from the literature, and perform unsupervised co-expression analysis, identifying modules of genes with varying response to injury. We uncover downregulation of axonal and synaptic maintenance genetic program, and increased activation of type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling following stroke in aged mice. Together, these results paint a picture of ischemic stroke as a complex age-related disease and provide insights into interaction of aging and stroke on cellular and molecular level."	0
"32433966"	"CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 Axis Mediates Neuroinflammatory Cascade across Schwann Cell-Neuron-Microglia.Neuroinflammation is a crucial mechanism in many neurological disorders. Injury to the peripheral sensory nerves leads to a neuroinflammatory response in the somatosensory pathway, from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) to the spinal cord, contributing to neuropathic pain. How the immune reaction is initiated peripherally and propagated to the spinal cord remains less clear. Here, we find that ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), highly expressed in Schwann cells, mediates neuroinflammatory response through the activating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and inducing interleukin 6 (IL-6) in sensory neurons. Cntf deficiency attenuates neuroinflammation in DRG and the spinal cord with alleviated pain post-injury. Recombinant CNTF applied to the sensory nerves recapitulates neuroinflammation in the DRG and spinal cord, with consequent pain development. We delineate the CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 axis in mediating the onset and progression of the inflammatory cascade from the periphery to the spinal cord with therapeutic implications for neuropathic pain."	1
"31420216"	"Estrogen-Related Hormones Induce Apoptosis by Stabilizing Schlafen-12 Protein Turnover.The mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis is controlled by the ratio of anti- and pro-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins. The molecular events underlying how a given physiological stimulus changes this ratio to trigger apoptosis remains unclear. We report here that human 17-β-estradiol (E2) and its related steroid hormones induce apoptosis by binding directly to phosphodiesterase 3A, which in turn recruits and stabilizes an otherwise fast-turnover protein Schlafen 12 (SLFN12). The elevated SLFN12 binds to ribosomes to exclude the recruitment of signal recognition particles (SRPs), thereby blocking the continuous protein translation occurring on the endoplasmic reticulum of E2-treated cells. These proteins include Bcl-2 and Mcl-1, whose ensuing decrease triggers apoptosis. The SLFN12 protein and an apoptosis activation marker were co-localized in syncytiotrophoblast of human placentas, where levels of estrogen-related hormones are high, and dynamic cell turnover by apoptosis is critical for successful implantation and placenta development."	1
"32238449"	"Blunting senescence boosts liver regeneration.The mammalian liver possesses a unique capacity for regeneration. However, this regenerative potential declines with age due to unknown mechanisms. In this issue of <i>Genes & Development</i>, Ritschka and colleagues (pp. 489-494). compare liver regeneration upon partial hepatectomy in young and adult mice. Partial hepatectomy causes a transient increase in p21 in a subpopulation of hepatocytes that persists in adult mice. Remarkably, treatment with the BCL-2 family inhibitor ABT-737 blunts p21 expression, enhancing liver regeneration."	0
"32475820"	"Diabetes enhances translation of <i>Cd40</i> mRNA in murine retinal Müller glia via a 4E-BP1/2-dependent mechanism.Activation of the immune costimulatory molecule cluster of differentiation 40 (CD40) in Müller glia has been implicated in the initiation of diabetes-induced retinal inflammation. Results from previous studies support that CD40 protein expression is elevated in Müller glia of diabetic mice; however, the mechanisms responsible for this increase have not been explored. Here, we evaluated the hypothesis that diabetes augments translation of the <i>Cd40</i> mRNA. Mice receiving thiamet G (TMG), an inhibitor of the <i>O</i>-GlcNAc hydrolase <i>O</i>-GlcNAcase, exhibited enhanced retinal protein <i>O</i>-GlcNAcylation and increased <i>Cd40</i> mRNA translation. TMG administration also promoted <i>Cd40</i> mRNA association with Müller cell-specific ribosomes isolated from the retina of RiboTag mice. Similar effects on <i>O</i>-GlcNAcylation and <i>Cd40</i> mRNA translation were also observed in the retina of a mouse model of type 1 diabetes. In cultured cells, TMG promoted sequestration of the cap-binding protein eIF4E (eukaryotic translation in initiation factor 4E) by 4E-BP1 (eIF4E-binding protein 1) and enhanced cap-independent <i>Cd40</i> mRNA translation as assessed by a bicistronic reporter that contained the 5'-UTR of the <i>Cd40</i> mRNA. Ablation of 4E-BP1/2 prevented the increase in <i>Cd40</i> mRNA translation in TMG-exposed cells, and expression of a 4E-BP1 variant that constitutively sequesters eIF4E promoted reporter activity. Extending on the cell culture results, we found that in contrast to WT mice, diabetic 4E-BP1/2-deficient mice did not exhibit enhanced retinal <i>Cd40</i> mRNA translation and failed to up-regulate expression of the inflammatory marker nitric-oxide synthase 2. These findings support a model wherein diabetes-induced <i>O</i>-GlcNAcylation of 4E-BP1 promotes <i>Cd40</i> mRNA translation in Müller glia."	0
"32001511"	"HELLS and PRDM9 form a pioneer complex to open chromatin at meiotic recombination hot spots.Chromatin barriers prevent spurious interactions between regulatory elements and DNA-binding proteins. One such barrier, whose mechanism for overcoming is poorly understood, is access to recombination hot spots during meiosis. Here we show that the chromatin remodeler HELLS and DNA-binding protein PRDM9 function together to open chromatin at hot spots and provide access for the DNA double-strand break (DSB) machinery. Recombination hot spots are decorated by a unique combination of histone modifications not found at other regulatory elements. HELLS is recruited to hot spots by PRDM9 and is necessary for both histone modifications and DNA accessibility at hot spots. In male mice lacking HELLS, DSBs are retargeted to other sites of open chromatin, leading to germ cell death and sterility. Together, these data provide a model for hot spot activation in which HELLS and PRDM9 form a pioneer complex to create a unique epigenomic environment of open chromatin, permitting correct placement and repair of DSBs."	1
"32668239"	"The Apparent Requirement for Protein Synthesis during G2 Phase Is due to Checkpoint Activation.Protein synthesis inhibitors (e.g., cycloheximide) block mitotic entry, suggesting that cell cycle progression requires protein synthesis until right before mitosis. However, cycloheximide is also known to activate p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), which can delay mitotic entry through a G2/M checkpoint. Here, we ask whether checkpoint activation or a requirement for protein synthesis is responsible for the cycloheximide effect. We find that p38 inhibitors prevent cycloheximide-treated cells from arresting in G2 phase and that G2 duration is normal in approximately half of these cells. The Wee1 inhibitor MK-1775 and Wee1/Myt1 inhibitor PD0166285 also prevent cycloheximide from blocking mitotic entry, raising the possibility that Wee1 and/or Myt1 mediate the cycloheximide-induced G2 arrest. Thus, protein synthesis during G2 phase is not required for mitotic entry, at least when the p38 checkpoint pathway is abrogated. However, M phase progression is delayed in cycloheximide-plus-kinase-inhibitor-treated cells, emphasizing the different requirements of protein synthesis for timely entry and completion of mitosis."	1
"32017898"	"The Alazami Syndrome-Associated Protein LARP7 Guides U6 Small Nuclear RNA Modification and Contributes to Splicing Robustness.The La-related protein 7 (LARP7) forms a complex with the nuclear 7SK RNA to regulate RNA polymerase II transcription. It has been implicated in cancer and the Alazami syndrome, a severe developmental disorder. Here, we report a so far unknown role of this protein in RNA modification. We show that LARP7 physically connects the spliceosomal U6 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) with a distinct subset of box C/D small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) guiding U6 2'-O-methylation. Consistently, these modifications are severely compromised in the absence of LARP7. Although general splicing remains largely unaffected, transcriptome-wide analysis revealed perturbations in alternative splicing in LARP7-depleted cells. Importantly, we identified defects in 2'-O-methylation of the U6 snRNA in Alazami syndrome siblings carrying a LARP7 mutation. Our data identify LARP7 as a bridging factor for snoRNA-guided modification of the U6 snRNA and suggest that alterations in splicing fidelity contribute to the etiology of the Alazami syndrome."	1
"31995728"	"AMPK, a Regulator of Metabolism and Autophagy, Is Activated by Lysosomal Damage via a Novel Galectin-Directed Ubiquitin Signal Transduction System.AMPK is a central regulator of metabolism and autophagy. Here we show how lysosomal damage activates AMPK. This occurs via a hitherto unrecognized signal transduction system whereby cytoplasmic sentinel lectins detect membrane damage leading to ubiquitination responses. Absence of Galectin 9 (Gal9) or loss of its capacity to recognize lumenal glycans exposed during lysosomal membrane damage abrogate such ubiquitination responses. Proteomic analyses with APEX2-Gal9 have revealed global changes within the Gal9 interactome during lysosomal damage. Gal9 association with lysosomal glycoproteins increases whereas interactions with a newly identified Gal9 partner, deubiquitinase USP9X, diminishes upon lysosomal injury. In response to damage, Gal9 displaces USP9X from complexes with TAK1 and promotes K63 ubiquitination of TAK1 thus activating AMPK on damaged lysosomes. This triggers autophagy and contributes to autophagic control of membrane-damaging microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Thus, galectin and ubiquitin systems converge to activate AMPK and autophagy during endomembrane homeostasis."	1
"31023583"	"ER and Nutrient Stress Promote Assembly of Respiratory Chain Supercomplexes through the PERK-eIF2α Axis.Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response are energetically challenging under nutrient stress conditions. However, the regulatory mechanisms that control the energetic demand under nutrient and ER stress are largely unknown. Here we show that ER stress and glucose deprivation stimulate mitochondrial bioenergetics and formation of respiratory supercomplexes (SCs) through protein kinase R-like ER kinase (PERK). Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of PERK suppresses nutrient and ER stress-mediated increases in SC levels and reduces oxidative phosphorylation-dependent ATP production. Conversely, PERK activation augments respiratory SCs. The PERK-eIF2α-ATF4 axis increases supercomplex assembly factor 1 (SCAF1 or COX7A2L), promoting SCs and enhanced mitochondrial respiration. PERK activation is sufficient to rescue bioenergetic defects caused by complex I missense mutations derived from mitochondrial disease patients. These studies have identified an energetic communication between ER and mitochondria, with implications in cell survival and diseases associated with mitochondrial failures."	1
"31229405"	"Rearrangements within the U6 snRNA Core during the Transition between the Two Catalytic Steps of Splicing.The RNA catalytic core of spliceosomes as visualized by cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) remains unchanged at different stages of splicing. However, we demonstrate that mutations within the core of yeast U6 snRNA modulate conformational changes between the two catalytic steps. We propose that the intramolecular stem-loop (ISL) of U6 exists in two competing states, changing between a default, non-catalytic conformation and a transient, catalytic conformation. Whereas stable interactions in the catalytic triplex promote catalysis and their disruptions favor exit from the catalytic conformation, destabilization of the lower ISL stem promotes catalysis and its stabilization supports exit from the catalytic conformation. Thus, in addition to the catalytic triplex, U6-ISL acts as an important dynamic component of the catalytic center. The relative flexibility of the lower U6-ISL stem is conserved across eukaryotes. Similar features are found in U6atac and domain V of group II introns, arguing for the generality of the proposed mechanism."	0
"32243828"	"Chromatin Hyperacetylation Impacts Chromosome Folding by Forming a Nuclear Subcompartment.Delineating how chromosomes fold at length scales beyond one megabase remains obscure relative to smaller-scale folding into TADs, loops, and nucleosomes. We find that rather than simply unfolding chromatin, histone hyperacetylation results in interactions between distant genomic loci separated by tens to hundreds of megabases, even in the absence of transcription. These hyperacetylated ""megadomains"" are formed by the BRD4-NUT fusion oncoprotein, interact both within and between chromosomes, and form a specific nuclear subcompartment that has elevated gene activity with respect to other subcompartments. Pharmacological degradation of BRD4-NUT results in collapse of megadomains and attenuation of the interactions between them. In contrast, these interactions persist and contacts between newly acetylated regions are formed after inhibiting RNA polymerase II initiation. Our structure-function approach thus reveals that broad chromatin domains of identical biochemical composition, independent of transcription, form nuclear subcompartments, and also indicates the potential of altering chromosome structure for treating human disease."	0
"31914401"	"Functional Regeneration of the Sensory Root via Axonal Invasion.Regeneration following spinal root avulsion is broadly unsuccessful despite the regenerative capacity of other PNS-located nerves. By combining focal laser lesioning to model root avulsion in zebrafish, time-lapse imaging, and transgenesis, we identify that regenerating DRG neurons fail to recapitulate developmental paradigms of actin-based invasion after injury. We demonstrate that inducing actin reorganization into invasive components via pharmacological and genetic approaches in the regenerating axon can rescue sensory axon spinal cord entry. Cell-autonomous induction of invasion components using constitutively active Src induces DRG axon regeneration, suggesting an intrinsic mechanism can be activated to drive regeneration. Furthermore, analyses of neuronal activity and animal behavior show restoration of sensory circuit activity and behavior upon stimulating axons to re-enter the spinal cord via invasion. Altogether, our data identify induction of invasive components as sufficient for functional sensory root regeneration after injury."	0
"32877684"	"Cell Cycle Checkpoints Cooperate to Suppress DNA- and RNA-Associated Molecular Pattern Recognition and Anti-Tumor Immune Responses.The DNA-dependent pattern recognition receptor, cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP synthase), mediates communication between the DNA damage and the immune responses. Mitotic chromosome missegregation stimulates cGAS activity; however, it is unclear whether progression through mitosis is required for cancercell-intrinsic activation of anti-tumor immune responses. Moreover, it is unknown whether cell cycle checkpoint disruption can restore responses in cancer cells that are recalcitrant to DNAdamage-induced inflammation. Here, we demonstrate that prolonged cell cycle arrest at the G<sub>2</sub>-mitosis boundary from either excessive DNA damage or CDK1 inhibition prevents inflammatory-stimulated gene expression and immune-mediated destruction of distal tumors. Remarkably, DNAdamage-induced inflammatory signaling is restored in a RIG-I-dependent manner upon concomitant disruption of p53 and the G<sub>2</sub> checkpoint. These findings link aberrant cell progression and p53 loss to an expanded spectrum of damage-associated molecular pattern recognition and have implications for the design of rational approaches to augment anti-tumor immune responses."	0
"31940492"	"FBXW7 Confers Radiation Survival by Targeting p53 for Degradation.The tumor suppressor p53 plays a critical role in integrating a wide variety of stress responses. Therefore, p53 levels are precisely regulated by multiple ubiquitin ligases. In this study, we report that FBXW7, a substrate recognition component of the SKP1-CUL1-F-box (SCF) E3 ligase, interacts with and targets p53 for polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation after exposure to ionizing radiation or etoposide. Mechanistically, DNA damage activates ATM to phosphorylate p53 on Ser33 and Ser37, which facilitates the FBXW7 binding and subsequent p53 degradation by SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup>. Inactivation of ATM or SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup> by small molecular inhibitors or genetic knockdown/knockout approaches extends the p53 protein half-life upon DNA damage in an MDM2-independent manner. Biologically, FBXW7 inactivation sensitizes cancer cells to radiation or etoposide by stabilizing p53 to induce cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. Taken together, our study elucidates a mechanism by which FBXW7 confers cancer cell survival during radiotherapy or chemotherapy via p53 targeting."	1
"32620553"	"The maturase HydF enables [FeFe] hydrogenase assembly via transient, cofactor-dependent interactions.[FeFe] hydrogenases have attracted extensive attention in the field of renewable energy research because of their remarkable efficiency for H<sub>2</sub> gas production. H<sub>2</sub> formation is catalyzed by a biologically unique hexanuclear iron cofactor denoted the H-cluster. The assembly of this cofactor requires a dedicated maturation machinery including HydF, a multidomain [4Fe4S] cluster protein with GTPase activity. HydF is responsible for harboring and delivering a precatalyst to the apo-hydrogenase, but the details of this process are not well understood. Here, we utilize gas-phase electrophoretic macromolecule analysis to show that a HydF dimer forms a transient interaction complex with the hydrogenase and that the formation of this complex depends on the cofactor content on HydF. Moreover, Fourier transform infrared, electron paramagnetic resonance, and UV-visible spectroscopy studies of mutants of HydF show that the isolated iron-sulfur cluster domain retains the capacity for binding the precatalyst in a reversible fashion and is capable of activating apo-hydrogenase in <i>in vitro</i> assays. These results demonstrate the central role of the iron-sulfur cluster domain of HydF in the final stages of H-cluster assembly, <i>i.e.</i> in binding and delivering the precatalyst."	0
"32553172"	"Molecular Competition in G1 Controls When Cells Simultaneously Commit to Terminally Differentiate and Exit the Cell Cycle.Terminal differentiation is essential for the development and maintenance of tissues in all multi-cellular organisms and is associated with permanent exit from the cell cycle. Failure to permanently exit the cell cycle can result in cancer and disease. However, the molecular mechanisms and timing that coordinate differentiation commitment and cell cycle exit are not yet understood. Using live, single-cell imaging of cell cycle progression and differentiation commitment during adipogenesis, we show that a rapid switch mechanism engages exclusively in G1 to trigger differentiation commitment simultaneously with permanent exit from the cell cycle. We identify a molecular competition in G1 between when the differentiation switch is triggered and when the proliferative window closes that allows mitogen and differentiation stimuli to control the balance between terminally differentiating cells produced and progenitor cells kept in reserve, a parameter of critical importance for enabling proper development of tissue domains and organs."	0
"32320654"	"Cellular Importin-α3 Expression Dynamics in the Lung Regulate Antiviral Response Pathways against Influenza A Virus Infection.Importin-α adaptor proteins orchestrate dynamic nuclear transport processes involved in cellular homeostasis. Here, we show that importin-α3, one of the main NF-κB transporters, is the most abundantly expressed classical nuclear transport factor in the mammalian respiratory tract. Importin-α3 promoter activity is regulated by TNF-α-induced NF-κB in a concentration-dependent manner. High-level TNF-α-inducing highly pathogenic avian influenza A viruses (HPAIVs) isolated from fatal human cases harboring human-type polymerase signatures (PB2 627K, 701N) significantly downregulate importin-α3 mRNA expression in primary lung cells. Importin-α3 depletion is restored upon back-mutating the HPAIV polymerase into an avian-type signature (PB2 627E, 701D) that can no longer induce high TNF-α levels. Importin-α3-deficient mice show reduced NF-κB-activated antiviral gene expression and increased influenza lethality. Thus, importin-α3 plays a key role in antiviral immunity against influenza. Lifting the bottleneck in importin-α3 availability in the lung might provide a new strategy to combat respiratory virus infections."	1
"32579926"	"Recently Evolved Enhancers Emerge with High Interindividual Variability and Less Frequently Associate with Disease.Mutations in non-coding regulatory DNA such as enhancers underlie a wide variety of diseases including developmental disorders and cancer. As enhancers rapidly evolve, understanding their function and configuration in non-human disease models can have important clinical applications. Here, we analyze enhancer configurations in tissues isolated from the common marmoset, a widely used primate model for human disease. Integrating these data with human and mouse data, we find that enhancers containing trait-associated variants are preferentially conserved. In contrast, most human-specific enhancers are highly variable between individuals, with a subset failing to contact promoters. These are located further away from genes and more often reside in inactive B-compartments. Our data show that enhancers typically emerge as instable elements with minimal biological impact prior to their integration in a transcriptional program. Furthermore, our data provide insight into which trait variations in enhancers can be faithfully modeled using the common marmoset."	0
"32755586"	"Inhibition of MEK1/2 Forestalls the Onset of Acquired Resistance to Entrectinib in Multiple Models of NTRK1-Driven Cancer.NTRK1 gene fusions are actionable drivers of numerous human malignancies. Here, we show that expression of the TPR-NTRK1 fusion kinase in immortalized mouse pancreatic ductal epithelial (IMPE) (pancreas) or mouse lung epithelial (MLE-12) cells is sufficient to promote rapidly growing tumors in mice. Both tumor models are exquisitely sensitive to targeted inhibition with entrectinib, a tropomyosin-related kinase A (TRKA) inhibitor. Initial regression of NTRK1-driven tumors is driven by induced expression of BIM, such that BIM silencing leads to a diminished response to entrectinib in vivo. However, the emergence of drug-resistant disease limits the long-term durability of responses. Based on the reactivation of RAF>MEK>ERK signaling observed in entrectinib-treated tumors, we show that the combination of entrectinib plus the MEK1/2 inhibitor cobimetinib dramatically forestalls the onset of drug resistance in vivo. Collectively, these data provide a mechanistic rationale for rapid clinical deployment of combined inhibition of TRKA plus MEK1/2 in NTRK1-driven cancers."	0
"32075731"	"Small Molecule Inhibition of GSK-3 Specifically Inhibits the Transcription of Inhibitory Co-receptor LAG-3 for Enhanced Anti-tumor Immunity.Immune checkpoint blockade using antibodies against negative co-receptors such as cytolytic T cell antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) has seen much success treating cancer. However, most patients are still not cured, underscoring the need for improved treatments and the possible development of small molecule inhibitors (SMIs) for improved immunotherapy. We previously showed that glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3α/β is a central regulator of PD-1 expression, where GSK-3 inhibition down-regulates PD-1 and enhances CD8<sup>+</sup> cytolytic T cell (CTL) function, reducing viral infections and tumor growth. Here, we demonstrate that GSK-3 also negatively regulates Lymphocyte Activation Gene-3 (LAG-3) expression on CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells. GSK-3 SMIs are more effective than LAG-3 blockade alone in suppressing B16 melanoma growth, while their combination resulted in enhanced tumor clearance. This was linked to increased expression of the transcription factor, Tbet, which bound the LAG-3 promoter, inhibiting its transcription, and to increased granzyme B and interferon-γ1 expression. Overall, we describe a small molecule approach to inhibit LAG-3, resulting in enhanced anti-tumor immunity."	1
"32554806"	"Nucleolar localization of the yeast RNA exosome subunit Rrp44 hints at early pre-rRNA processing as its main function.The RNA exosome is a multisubunit protein complex involved in RNA surveillance of all classes of RNA, and is essential for pre-rRNA processing. The exosome is conserved throughout evolution, present in archaea and eukaryotes from yeast to humans, where it localizes to the nucleus and cytoplasm. The catalytically active subunit Rrp44/Dis3 of the exosome in budding yeast (<i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i>) is considered a protein present in these two subcellular compartments, and here we report that it not only localizes mainly to the nucleus, but is concentrated in the nucleolus, where the early pre-rRNA processing reactions take place. Moreover, we show by confocal microscopy analysis that the core exosome subunits Rrp41 and Rrp43 also localize largely to the nucleus and strongly accumulate in the nucleolus. These results shown here shed additional light on the localization of the yeast exosome and have implications regarding the main function of this RNase complex, which seems to be primarily in early pre-rRNA processing and surveillance."	0
"32209481"	"c-Src Promotes Tumorigenesis and Tumor Progression by Activating PFKFB3.Reprogramming of glucose metabolism is a key event in tumorigenesis and progression. Here, we show that active c-Src stimulates glycolysis by phosphorylating (Tyr194) and activating PFKFB3, a key enzyme that boosts glycolysis by producing fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and activating PFK1. Increased glycolysis intermediates replenish non-oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) and serine pathway for biosynthesis of cancer cells. PFKFB3 knockout (KO) cells and their counterpart reconstituted with PFKFB3-Y194F show comparably impaired abilities for proliferation, migration, and xenograft formation. Furthermore, PFKFB3-Y194F knockin mice show impaired glycolysis and, mating of these mice with APC<sup>min/+</sup> mice attenuates spontaneous colon cancer formation in APC<sup>min/+</sup> mice. In summary, we identify a specific mechanism by which c-Src mediates glucose metabolism to meet cancer cells' requirements for maximal biosynthesis and proliferation. The PFKFB3-Tyr194 phosphorylation level highly correlates with c-Src activity in clinical tumor samples, indicating its potential as an evaluation for tumor prognosis."	1
"32726624"	"An Apoptotic Caspase Network Safeguards Cell Death Induction in Pyroptotic Macrophages.Pyroptosis has emerged as a key mechanism by which inflammasomes promote host defense against microbial pathogens and sterile inflammation. Gasdermin D (GSDMD)-mediated cell lysis is a hallmark of pyroptosis, but our understanding of cell death signaling during pyroptosis is fragmented. Here, we show that independently of GSDMD-mediated plasma membrane permeabilization, inflammasome receptors engage caspase-1 and caspase-8, both of which redundantly promote activation of apoptotic executioner caspase-3 and caspase-7 in pyroptotic macrophages. Impaired GSDMD pore formation downstream of caspase-1 and caspase-8 activation suffices to unmask the apoptotic phenotype of pyroptotic macrophages. Combined inactivation of initiator caspase-1 and caspase-8, or executioner caspase-3 and caspase-7, is required to abolish inflammasome-induced DEVDase activity during pyroptosis and in apoptotic Gsdmd<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Collectively, these results unveil a robust apoptotic caspase network that is activated in parallel to GSDMD-mediated plasma membrane permeabilization and safeguards cell death induction in pyroptotic macrophages."	1
"32320660"	"The Asymmetric Expression of SAUR Genes Mediated by ARF7/19 Promotes the Gravitropism and Phototropism of Plant Hypocotyls.The asymmetric distribution of auxin leads to the bending growth of hypocotyls during gravitropic and phototropic responses, but the signaling events downstream of auxin remain unclear. Here, we identify many SAUR genes showing asymmetric expression in soybean hypocotyls during gravistimulation and then study their homologs in Arabidopsis. SAUR19 subfamily genes have asymmetric expression in Arabidopsis hypocotyls during gravitropic and phototropic responses, induced by the lateral redistribution of auxin. Both the mutation of SAUR19 subfamily genes and the ectopic expression of SAUR19 weaken these tropic responses, indicating the critical role of their asymmetric expression. The auxin-responsive transcription factor ARF7 may directly bind the SAUR19 promoter and activate SAUR19 expression asymmetrically in tropic responses. Taken together, our results reveal that a gravity- or light-triggered asymmetric auxin distribution induces the asymmetric expression of SAUR19 subfamily genes by ARF7 and ARF19 in the hypocotyls, which leads to bending growth during gravitropic and phototropic responses."	1
"32692975"	"Structure of the Inhibited State of the Sec Translocon.Protein secretion in eukaryotes and prokaryotes involves a universally conserved protein translocation channel formed by the Sec61 complex. Unrelated small-molecule natural products and synthetic compounds inhibit Sec61 with differential effects for different substrates or for Sec61 from different organisms, making this a promising target for therapeutic intervention. To understand the mode of inhibition and provide insight into the molecular mechanism of this dynamic translocon, we determined the structure of mammalian Sec61 inhibited by the Mycobacterium ulcerans exotoxin mycolactone via electron cryo-microscopy. Unexpectedly, the conformation of inhibited Sec61 is optimal for substrate engagement, with mycolactone wedging open the cytosolic side of the lateral gate. The inability of mycolactone-inhibited Sec61 to effectively transport substrate proteins implies that signal peptides and transmembrane domains pass through the site occupied by mycolactone. This provides a foundation for understanding the molecular mechanism of Sec61 inhibitors and reveals novel features of translocon function and dynamics."	0
"32527728"	"The functional role of the αM4 transmembrane helix in the muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor probed through mutagenesis and coevolutionary analyses.The activity of the muscle-type <i>Torpedo</i> nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is highly sensitive to lipids, but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. The nAChR transmembrane α-helix, M4, is positioned at the perimeter of each subunit in direct contact with lipids and likely plays a central role in lipid sensing. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying nAChR lipid sensing, we used homology modeling, coevolutionary analyses, site-directed mutagenesis, and electrophysiology to examine the role of the α-subunit M4 (αM4) in the function of the adult muscle nAChR. Ala substitutions for most αM4 residues, including those in clusters of polar residues at both the N and C termini, and deletion of up to 11 C-terminal residues had little impact on the agonist-induced response. Even Ala substitutions for coevolved pairs of residues at the interface between αM4 and the adjacent helices, αM1 and αM3, had little effect, although some impaired nAChR expression. On the other hand, Ala substitutions for Thr422 and Arg429 caused relatively large losses of function, suggesting functional roles for these specific residues. Ala substitutions for aromatic residues at the αM4-αM1/αM3 interface generally led to gains of function, as previously reported for the prokaryotic homolog, the <i>Erwinia chrysanthemi</i> ligand-gated ion channel (ELIC). The functional effects of individual Ala substitutions in αM4 were found to be additive, although not in a completely independent manner. Our results provide insight into the structural features of αM4 that are important. They also suggest how lipid-dependent changes in αM4 structure ultimately modify nAChR function."	0
"32755595"	"A Structure-Based Mechanism for DNA Entry into the Cohesin Ring.Despite key roles in sister chromatid cohesion and chromosome organization, the mechanism by which cohesin rings are loaded onto DNA is still unknown. Here we combine biochemical approaches and cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) to visualize a cohesin loading intermediate in which DNA is locked between two gates that lead into the cohesin ring. Building on this structural framework, we design experiments to establish the order of events during cohesin loading. In an initial step, DNA traverses an N-terminal kleisin gate that is first opened upon ATP binding and then closed as the cohesin loader locks the DNA against the ATPase gate. ATP hydrolysis will lead to ATPase gate opening to complete DNA entry. Whether DNA loading is successful or results in loop extrusion might be dictated by a conserved kleisin N-terminal tail that guides the DNA through the kleisin gate. Our results establish the molecular basis for cohesin loading onto DNA."	0
"32640232"	"Functional Convergence of Autonomic and Sensorimotor Processing in the Lateral Cerebellum.The cerebellum is involved in the control of voluntary and autonomic rhythmic behaviors, yet it is unclear to what extent it coordinates these in concert. We studied Purkinje cell activity during unperturbed and perturbed respiration in lobules simplex, crus 1, and crus 2. During unperturbed (eupneic) respiration, complex spike and simple spike activity encode the phase of ongoing sensorimotor processing. In contrast, when the respiratory cycle is perturbed by whisker stimulation, mice concomitantly protract their whiskers and advance their inspiration in a phase-dependent manner, preceded by increased simple spike activity. This phase advancement of respiration in response to whisker stimulation can be mimicked by optogenetic stimulation of Purkinje cells and prevented by cell-specific genetic modification of their AMPA receptors, hampering increased simple spike firing. Thus, the impact of Purkinje cell activity on respiratory control is context and phase dependent, highlighting a coordinating role for the cerebellar hemispheres in aligning autonomic and sensorimotor behaviors."	0
"30735654"	"R-Loops as Cellular Regulators and Genomic Threats.During transcription, the nascent RNA strand can base pair with its template DNA, displacing the non-template strand as ssDNA and forming a structure called an R-loop. R-loops are common across many domains of life and cause DNA damage in certain contexts. In this review, we summarize recent results implicating R-loops as important regulators of cellular processes such as transcription termination, gene regulation, and DNA repair. We also highlight recent work suggesting that R-loops can be problematic to cells as blocks to efficient transcription and replication that trigger the DNA damage response. Finally, we discuss how R-loops may contribute to cancer, neurodegeneration, and inflammatory diseases and compare the available next-generation sequencing-based approaches to map R-loops genome wide."	0
"32187550"	"miR-181a Modulation of ERK-MAPK Signaling Sustains DC-SIGN Expression and Limits Activation of Monocyte-Derived Dendritic Cells.DC-SIGN<sup>+</sup> monocyte-derived dendritic cells (mo-DCs) play important roles in bacterial infections and inflammatory diseases, but the factors regulating their differentiation and proinflammatory status remain poorly defined. Here, we identify a microRNA, miR-181a, and a molecular mechanism that simultaneously regulate the acquisition of DC-SIGN expression and the activation state of DC-SIGN<sup>+</sup> mo-DCs. Specifically, we show that miR-181a promotes DC-SIGN expression during terminal mo-DC differentiation and limits its sensitivity and responsiveness to TLR triggering and CD40 ligation. Mechanistically, miR-181a sustains ERK-MAPK signaling in mo-DCs, thereby enabling the maintenance of high levels of DC-SIGN and a high activation threshold. Low miR-181a levels during mo-DC differentiation, induced by inflammatory signals, do not support the high phospho-ERK signal transduction required for DC-SIGN<sup>hi</sup> mo-DCs and lead to development of proinflammatory DC-SIGN<sup>lo/-</sup> mo-DCs. Collectively, our study demonstrates that high DC-SIGN expression levels and a high activation threshold in mo-DCs are linked and simultaneously maintained by miR-181a."	1
"30581146"	"Role of Mitochondria in Ferroptosis.Ferroptosis is a regulated necrosis process driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation. Although ferroptosis and cellular metabolism interplay with one another, whether mitochondria are involved in ferroptosis is under debate. Here, we demonstrate that mitochondria play a crucial role in cysteine-deprivation-induced ferroptosis but not in that induced by inhibiting glutathione peroxidase-4 (GPX4), the most downstream component of the ferroptosis pathway. Mechanistically, cysteine deprivation leads to mitochondrial membrane potential hyperpolarization and lipid peroxide accumulation. Inhibition of mitochondrial TCA cycle or electron transfer chain (ETC) mitigated mitochondrial membrane potential hyperpolarization, lipid peroxide accumulation, and ferroptosis. Blockage of glutaminolysis had the same inhibitory effect, which was counteracted by supplying downstream TCA cycle intermediates. Importantly, loss of function of fumarate hydratase, a tumor suppressor and TCA cycle component, confers resistance to cysteine-deprivation-induced ferroptosis. Collectively, this work demonstrates the crucial role of mitochondria in cysteine-deprivation-induced ferroptosis and implicates ferroptosis in tumor suppression."	0
"32601373"	"Endocytic regulation of cellular ion homeostasis controls lysosome biogenesis.Lysosomes serve as cellular degradation and signalling centres that coordinate metabolism in response to intracellular cues and extracellular signals. Lysosomal capacity is adapted to cellular needs by transcription factors, such as TFEB and TFE3, which activate the expression of lysosomal and autophagy genes. Nuclear translocation and activation of TFEB are induced by a variety of conditions such as starvation, lysosome stress and lysosomal storage disorders. How these various cues are integrated remains incompletely understood. Here, we describe a pathway initiated at the plasma membrane that controls lysosome biogenesis via the endocytic regulation of intracellular ion homeostasis. This pathway is based on the exo-endocytosis of NHE7, a Na<sup>+</sup>/H<sup>+</sup> exchanger mutated in X-linked intellectual disability, and serves to control intracellular ion homeostasis and thereby Ca<sup>2+</sup>/calcineurin-mediated activation of TFEB and downstream lysosome biogenesis in response to osmotic stress to promote the turnover of toxic proteins and cell survival."	0
"32518160"	"<i>Helicobacter pylori</i> infection downregulates the DNA glycosylase NEIL2, resulting in increased genome damage and inflammation in gastric epithelial cells.Infection with the Gram-negative, microaerophilic bacterium <i>Helicobacter pylori</i> induces an inflammatory response and oxidative DNA damage in gastric epithelial cells that can lead to gastric cancer (GC). However, the underlying pathogenic mechanism is largely unclear. Here, we report that the suppression of Nei-like DNA glycosylase 2 (NEIL2), a mammalian DNA glycosylase that specifically removes oxidized bases, is one mechanism through which <i>H. pylori</i> infection may fuel the accumulation of DNA damage leading to GC. Using cultured cell lines, gastric biopsy specimens, primary cells, and human enteroid-derived monolayers from healthy human stomach, we show that <i>H. pylori</i> infection greatly reduces NEIL2 expression. The <i>H. pylori</i> infection-induced downregulation of NEIL2 was specific, as <i>Campylobacter jejuni</i> had no such effect. Using gastric organoids isolated from the murine stomach in coculture experiments with live bacteria mimicking the infected stomach lining, we found that <i>H. pylori</i> infection is associated with the production of various inflammatory cytokines. This response was more pronounced in <i>Neil2</i> knockout (KO) mouse cells than in WT cells, suggesting that NEIL2 suppresses inflammation under physiological conditions. Notably, the <i>H. pylori</i>-infected <i>Neil2-</i>KO murine stomach exhibited more DNA damage than the WT. Furthermore, <i>H. pylori</i>-infected <i>Neil2-</i>KO mice had greater inflammation and more epithelial cell damage. Computational analysis of gene expression profiles of DNA glycosylases in gastric specimens linked the reduced <i>Neil2</i> level to GC progression. Our results suggest that NEIL2 downregulation is a plausible mechanism by which <i>H. pylori</i> infection impairs DNA damage repair, amplifies the inflammatory response, and initiates GC."	0
"32381626"	"TEX15 associates with MILI and silences transposable elements in male germ cells.DNA methylation is a major silencing mechanism of transposable elements (TEs). Here we report that TEX15, a testis-specific protein, is required for TE silencing. TEX15 is expressed in embryonic germ cells and functions during genome-wide epigenetic reprogramming. The <i>Tex15</i> mutant exhibits DNA hypomethylation in TEs at a level similar to <i>Mili</i> and <i>Dnmt3c</i> but not <i>Miwi2</i> mutants. TEX15 is associated with MILI in testis. As loss of <i>Tex15</i> causes TE desilencing with intact piRNA production, our results identify TEX15 as a new essential epigenetic regulator that may function as a nuclear effector of MILI to silence TEs by DNA methylation."	1
"31442422"	"The Gene-Silencing Protein MORC-1 Topologically Entraps DNA and Forms Multimeric Assemblies to Cause DNA Compaction.Microrchidia (MORC) ATPases are critical for gene silencing and chromatin compaction in multiple eukaryotic systems, but the mechanisms by which MORC proteins act are poorly understood. Here, we apply a series of biochemical, single-molecule, and cell-based imaging approaches to better understand the function of the Caenorhabditis elegans MORC-1 protein. We find that MORC-1 binds to DNA in a length-dependent but sequence non-specific manner and compacts DNA by forming DNA loops. MORC-1 molecules diffuse along DNA but become static as they grow into foci that are topologically entrapped on DNA. Consistent with the observed MORC-1 multimeric assemblies, MORC-1 forms nuclear puncta in cells and can also form phase-separated droplets in vitro. We also demonstrate that MORC-1 compacts nucleosome templates. These results suggest that MORCs affect genome structure and gene silencing by forming multimeric assemblages to topologically entrap and progressively loop and compact chromatin."	0
"32130891"	"High-Throughput Screens of PAM-Flexible Cas9 Variants for Gene Knockout and Transcriptional Modulation.A key limitation of the widely used CRISPR enzyme S. pyogenes Cas9 is the strict requirement of an NGG protospacer-adjacent motif (PAM) at the target site. This constraint can be limiting for genome editing applications that require precise Cas9 positioning. Recently, two Cas9 variants with a relaxed PAM requirement (NG) have been developed (xCas9 and Cas9-NG), but their activity has been measured at only a small number of endogenous sites. Here, we devise a high-throughput Cas9 pooled competition screen to compare the performance of Cas9 variants at thousands of genomic loci for gene knockout, transcriptional activation, and inhibition. We show that PAM flexibility comes at a substantial cost of decreased DNA targeting and cleavage. Of the PAM-flexible variants, we find that Cas9-NG outperforms xCas9 regardless of genome engineering modality or PAM. Finally, we combine xCas9 mutations with those of Cas9-NG, creating a stronger transcriptional modulator than existing PAM-flexible Cas9 variants."	0
"32726633"	"NMDAR-Dependent Emergence of Behavioral Representation in Primary Visual Cortex.Although neocortical sensory areas are generally thought to faithfully represent external stimuli, cortical networks exhibit considerable functional plasticity, allowing them to modify their output to reflect ongoing behavioral demands. We apply longitudinal 2-photon imaging of activity in the primary visual cortex (V1) of mice learning a conditioned eyeblink task to investigate the dynamic representations of task-relevant information. We find that, although all V1 neurons robustly and stably encode visual input, pyramidal cells and parvalbumin-expressing interneurons exhibit experience-dependent emergence of accurate behavioral representations during learning. The functional plasticity driving performance-predictive activity requires cell-autonomous expression of NMDA-type glutamate receptors. Our findings demonstrate that accurate encoding of behavioral output is not inherent to V1 but develops during learning to support visual task performance."	0
"32668244"	"The Zscan4-Tet2 Transcription Nexus Regulates Metabolic Rewiring and Enhances Proteostasis to Promote Reprogramming.Evolutionarily conserved SCAN (named after SRE-ZBP, CTfin51, AW-1, and Number 18 cDNA)-domain-containing zinc finger transcription factors (ZSCAN) have been found in both mouse and human genomes. Zscan4 is transiently expressed during zygotic genome activation (ZGA) in preimplantation embryos and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) reprogramming. However, little is known about the mechanism of Zscan4 underlying these processes of cell fate control. Here, we show that Zscan4f, a representative of ZSCAN proteins, is able to recruit Tet2 through its SCAN domain. The Zscan4f-Tet2 interaction promotes DNA demethylation and regulates the expression of target genes, particularly those encoding glycolytic enzymes and proteasome subunits. Zscan4f regulates metabolic rewiring, enhances proteasome function, and ultimately promotes iPSC generation. These results identify Zscan4f as an important partner of Tet2 in regulating target genes and promoting iPSC generation and suggest a possible and common mechanism shared by SCAN family transcription factors to recruit ten-eleven translocation (TET) DNA dioxygenases to regulate diverse cellular processes, including reprogramming."	1
"32375035"	"Histones, DNA, and Citrullination Promote Neutrophil Extracellular Trap Inflammation by Regulating the Localization and Activation of TLR4.Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) promote atherosclerosis by inducing proinflammatory cytokines, but the underlying mechanism remains unknown. NET DNA is immunogenic, but given the cytotoxicity of NET histones, it is unclear how it activates cells without killing them. Here, we show that histones, DNA, citrullination, and fragmentation synergize to drive inflammation below the histone cytotoxicity threshold. At low concentrations, nucleosomes induce cytokines, but high concentrations kill cells before cytokines are produced. The synergy between histones and DNA is critical for sub-lethal signaling and relies on distinct roles for histones and DNA. Histones bind and activate TLR4, whereas DNA recruits TLR4 to histone-containing endosomes. Citrullination is dispensable for NETosis but potentiates histone-mediated signaling. Consistently, chromatin blockade or PAD4 deficiency reduces atherosclerosis. Inflammation is also reduced in infected mice expressing GFP-tagged histones that block TLR4 binding. Thus, chromatin promotes inflammation in sterile disease and infection via synergistic mechanisms that use signals with distinct functions."	0
"30554947"	"Molecular Basis for the Single-Nucleotide Precision of Primary microRNA Processing.Microprocessor, composed of DROSHA and its cofactor DGCR8, initiates microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis by processing the primary transcripts of miRNA (pri-miRNAs). Here we investigate the mechanism by which Microprocessor selects the cleavage site with single-nucleotide precision, which is crucial for the specificity and functionality of miRNAs. By testing ∼40,000 pri-miRNA variants, we find that for some pri-miRNAs the cleavage site is dictated mainly by the mGHG motif embedded in the lower stem region of pri-miRNA. Structural modeling and deep-sequencing-based complementation experiments show that the double-stranded RNA-binding domain (dsRBD) of DROSHA recognizes mGHG to place the catalytic center in the appropriate position. The mGHG motif as well as the mGHG-recognizing residues in DROSHA dsRBD are conserved across eumetazoans, suggesting that this mechanism emerged in an early ancestor of the animal lineage. Our findings provide a basis for the understanding of miRNA biogenesis and rational design of accurate small-RNA-based gene silencing."	0
"31940486"	"Vesicle Shrinking and Enlargement Play Opposing Roles in the Release of Exocytotic Contents.For decades, two fusion modes were thought to control hormone and transmitter release essential to life; one facilitates release via fusion pore dilation and flattening (full collapse), and the other limits release by closing a narrow fusion pore (kiss-and-run). Using super-resolution stimulated emission depletion (STED) microscopy to visualize fusion modes of dense-core vesicles in neuroendocrine cells, we find that facilitation of release is mediated not by full collapse but by shrink fusion, in which the Ω-profile generated by vesicle fusion shrinks but maintains a large non-dilating pore. We discover that the physiological osmotic pressure of a cell squeezes, but does not dilate, the Ω-profile, which explains why shrink fusion prevails over full collapse. Instead of kiss-and-run, enlarge fusion, in which Ω-profiles grow while maintaining a narrow pore, slows down release. Shrink and enlarge fusion may thus account for diverse hormone and transmitter release kinetics observed in secretory cells, previously interpreted within the full-collapse/kiss-and-run framework."	0
"30772176"	"Demethylation of the Protein Phosphatase PP2A Promotes Demethylation of Histones to Enable Their Function as a Methyl Group Sink.Dysregulation of chromatin methylation is associated with defects in cellular differentiation as well as a variety of cancers. How cells regulate the opposing activities of histone methyltransferase and demethylase enzymes to set the methylation status of the epigenome for proper control of gene expression and metabolism remains poorly understood. Here, we show that loss of methylation of the major phosphatase PP2A in response to methionine starvation activates the demethylation of histones through hyperphosphorylation of specific demethylase enzymes. In parallel, this regulatory mechanism enables cells to preserve SAM by increasing SAH to limit SAM consumption by methyltransferase enzymes. Mutants lacking the PP2A methyltransferase or the effector H3K36 demethylase Rph1 exhibit elevated SAM levels and are dependent on cysteine due to reduced capacity to sink the methyl groups of SAM. Therefore, PP2A directs the methylation status of histones by regulating the phosphorylation status of histone demethylase enzymes in response to SAM levels."	0
"31995750"	"Cross-talk between CD38 and TTP Is Essential for Resolution of Inflammation during Microbial Sepsis.The resolution phase of acute inflammation is essential for tissue homeostasis, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We demonstrate that resolution of inflammation involves interactions between CD38 and tristetraprolin (TTP). During the onset of acute inflammation, CD38 levels are increased, leading to the production of Ca<sup>2+</sup>-signaling messengers, nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP), ADP ribose (ADPR), and cyclic ADPR (cADPR) from NAD(P)<sup>+</sup>. To initiate the onset of resolution, TTP expression is increased by the second messengers, NAADP and cADPR, which downregulate CD38 expression. The activation of TTP by Sirt1-dependent deacetylation, in response to increased NAD<sup>+</sup> levels, suppresses the acute inflammatory response and decreases Rheb expression, inhibits mTORC1, and induces autophagolysosomes for bacterial clearance. TTP may represent a mechanistic target of anti-inflammatory agents, such as carbon monoxide. TTP mediates crosstalk between acute inflammation and autophagic clearance of bacteria from damaged tissue in the resolution of inflammation during sepsis."	1
"32905768"	"The Negative Cross-Talk between SAG/RBX2/ROC2 and APC/C E3 Ligases in Regulation of Cell Cycle Progression and Drug Resistance.Anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is a well-characterized E3 ligase that couples with UBE2C and UBE2S E2s for substrate ubiquitylation by the K11 linkage. Our recent data show that SAG/RBX2/ROC2, a RING component of Cullin-RING E3 ligase, also complexes with these E2s for K11-linked substrate polyubiquitylation. Whether these two E3s cross-talk with each other was previously unknown. Here, we report that SAG competes with APC2 for UBE2C/UBE2S binding to act as a potential endogenous inhibitor of APC/C, thereby regulating the G2-to-M progression. As such, SAG knockdown triggers premature activation of APC/C, leading to mitotic slippage and resistance to anti-microtubule drugs. On the other hand, SAG itself is a substrate of APC/C<sup>CDH1</sup> for targeted degradation at the G1 phase. The degradation-resistant mutant of SAG-R98A/L101A accelerates the G1-to-S progression. Our study reveals that the negative cross-talk between SAG and APC/C is likely a mechanism to ensure the fidelity of cell cycle progression."	1
"32460012"	"TGF-β-Induced Phosphorylation of Usp9X Stabilizes Ankyrin-G and Regulates Dendritic Spine Development and Maintenance.Signaling by the cytokine transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) has been implicated in a multitude of biological functions; however, TGF-β signaling, particularly in the CNS, remains largely unexplored. ANK3 variants (encoding ankyrin-G) are associated with bipolar disorder, intellectual disability, and autism spectrum disorder, while mutations in USP9X, which encodes a deubiquitinase, are associated with X-linked intellectual disability and autism in humans. Here, we show that TGF-β signaling promotes Usp9X phosphorylation, which enhances its interaction with ankyrin-G and stabilizes ankyrin-G in spines, leading to spine enlargement. Using in situ proximity ligation combined with structured illumination superresolution microscopy, we characterize the postsynaptic spatial organization of phosphorylation-dependent regulation of Usp9X/ankyrin-G interactions in dendrites and its quantitative relationship with spine morphology and number. These data reveal a cytokine-mediated mechanism regulating protein stability in spines and suggest a role for deubiquitination and TGF-β signaling in neurodevelopmental disorder pathogenesis and treatment."	1
"32294430"	"Cdk4 and Cdk6 Couple the Cell-Cycle Machinery to Cell Growth via mTORC1.Cell growth is coupled to cell-cycle progression in mitotically proliferating mammalian cells, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. CyclinD-Cdk4/6 is known to phosphorylate RB to promote S-phase entry, but recent work suggests they have additional functions. We show here that CyclinD-Cdk4/6 activates mTORC1 by binding and phosphorylating TSC2 on Ser1217 and Ser1452. Pharmacological inhibition of Cdk4/6 leads to a rapid, TSC2-dependent reduction of mTORC1 activity in multiple human and mouse cell lines, including breast cancer cells. By simultaneously driving mTORC1 and E2F, CyclinD-Cdk4/6 couples cell growth to cell-cycle progression. Consistent with this, we see that mTORC1 activity is cell cycle dependent in proliferating neural stem cells of the adult rodent brain. We find that Cdk4/6 inhibition reduces cell proliferation partly via TSC2 and mTORC1. This is of clinical relevance, because Cdk4/6 inhibitors are used for breast cancer therapy."	1
"31027879"	"Coordinated Conformational Processing of the Tumor Suppressor Protein p53 by the Hsp70 and Hsp90 Chaperone Machineries.p53, the guardian of the genome, requires chaperoning by Hsp70 and Hsp90. However, how the two chaperone machineries affect p53 conformation and regulate its function remains elusive. We found that Hsp70, together with Hsp40, unfolds p53 in an ATP-dependent reaction. This unfolded state of p53 is susceptible to aggregation after release induced by the nucleotide exchange factor Bag-1. However, when Hsp90 and the adaptor protein Hop are present, p53 is transferred from Hsp70 to Hsp90, allowing restoration of the native state upon ATP hydrolysis. Our results suggest that the p53 conformation is constantly remodeled by the two major chaperone machineries. This connects p53 activity to stress, and the levels of free molecular chaperones are important factors regulating p53 activity. Together, our findings reveal an intricate interplay and cooperation of Hsp70 and Hsp90 in regulating the conformation of a client."	1
"32726631"	"A High-Resolution Method for Quantitative Molecular Analysis of Functionally Characterized Individual Synapses.Elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying the functional diversity of synapses requires a high-resolution, sensitive, diffusion-free, quantitative localization method that allows the determination of many proteins in functionally characterized individual synapses. Array tomography permits the quantitative analysis of single synapses but has limited sensitivity, and its application to functionally characterized synapses is challenging. Here, we aim to overcome these limitations by searching the parameter space of different fixation, resin, embedding, etching, retrieval, and elution conditions. Our optimizations reveal that etching epoxy-resin-embedded ultrathin sections with Na-ethanolate and treating them with SDS dramatically increase the labeling efficiency of synaptic proteins. We also demonstrate that this method is ideal for the molecular characterization of individual synapses following paired recordings, two-photon [Ca<sup>2+</sup>] or glutamate-sensor (iGluSnFR) imaging. This method fills a missing gap in the toolbox of molecular and cellular neuroscience, helping us to reveal how molecular heterogeneity leads to diversity in function."	0
"32348758"	"Region-Specific Proteome Changes of the Intestinal Epithelium during Aging and Dietary Restriction.The small intestine is responsible for nutrient absorption and one of the most important interfaces between the environment and the body. During aging, changes of the epithelium lead to food malabsorption and reduced barrier function, thus increasing disease risk. The drivers of these alterations remain poorly understood. Here, we compare the proteomes of intestinal crypts from mice across different anatomical regions and ages. We find that aging alters epithelial immunity, metabolism, and cell proliferation and is accompanied by region-dependent skewing in the cellular composition of the epithelium. Of note, short-term dietary restriction followed by refeeding partially restores the epithelium by promoting stem cell differentiation toward the secretory lineage. We identify Hmgcs2 (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A [CoA] synthetase 2), the rate-limiting enzyme for ketogenesis, as a modulator of stem cell differentiation that responds to dietary changes, and we provide an atlas of region- and age-dependent proteome changes of the small intestine."	0
"32616520"	"Identification of a localized nonsense-mediated decay pathway at the endoplasmic reticulum.Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a translation-dependent RNA quality control mechanism that occurs in the cytoplasm. However, it is unknown how NMD regulates the stability of RNAs translated at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here, we identify a localized NMD pathway dedicated to ER-translated mRNAs. We previously identified NBAS, a component of the Syntaxin 18 complex involved in Golgi-to-ER trafficking, as a novel NMD factor. Furthermore, we show that NBAS fulfills an independent function in NMD. This ER-NMD pathway requires the interaction of NBAS with the core NMD factor UPF1, which is partially localized at the ER in the proximity of the translocon. NBAS and UPF1 coregulate the stability of ER-associated transcripts, in particular those associated with the cellular stress response. We propose a model where NBAS recruits UPF1 to the membrane of the ER and activates an ER-dedicated NMD pathway, thus providing an ER-protective function by ensuring quality control of ER-translated mRNAs."	1
"32392469"	"Single-Cell Tracing Dissects Regulation of Maintenance and Inheritance of Transcriptional Reinduction Memory.Transcriptional memory of gene expression enables adaptation to repeated stimuli across many organisms. However, the regulation and heritability of transcriptional memory in single cells and through divisions remains poorly understood. Here, we combined microfluidics with single-cell live imaging to monitor Saccharomyces cerevisiae galactokinase 1 (GAL1) expression over multiple generations. By applying pedigree analysis, we dissected and quantified the maintenance and inheritance of transcriptional reinduction memory in individual cells through multiple divisions. We systematically screened for loss- and gain-of-memory knockouts to identify memory regulators in thousands of single cells. We identified new loss-of-memory mutants, which affect memory inheritance into progeny. We also unveiled a gain-of-memory mutant, elp6Δ, and suggest that this new phenotype can be mediated through decreased histone occupancy at the GAL1 promoter. Our work uncovers principles of maintenance and inheritance of gene expression states and their regulators at the single-cell level."	0
"32755588"	"K13-Mediated Reduced Susceptibility to Artemisinin in Plasmodium falciparum Is Overlaid on a Trait of Enhanced DNA Damage Repair.Southeast Asia has been the hotbed for the development of drug-resistant malaria parasites, including those with resistance to artemisinin combination therapy. While mutations in the kelch propeller domain (K13 mutations) are associated with artemisinin resistance, a range of evidence suggests that other factors are critical for the establishment and subsequent transmission of resistance in the field. Here, we perform a quantitative analysis of DNA damage and repair in the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum and find a strong link between enhanced DNA damage repair and artemisinin resistance. This experimental observation is further supported when variations in seven known DNA repair genes are found in resistant parasites, with six of these mutations being associated with K13 mutations. Our data provide important insights on confounding factors that are important for the establishment and spread of artemisinin resistance and may explain why resistance has not yet arisen in Africa."	0
"31919188"	"The chromatin remodeler Snf2h is essential for oocyte meiotic cell cycle progression.Oocytes are indispensable for mammalian life. Thus, it is important to understand how mature oocytes are generated. As a critical stage of oocytes development, meiosis has been extensively studied, yet how chromatin remodeling contributes to this process is largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor Snf2h (also known as Smarca5) plays a critical role in regulating meiotic cell cycle progression. Females with oocyte-specific depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> are infertile and oocytes lacking <i>Snf2h</i> fail to undergo meiotic resumption. Mechanistically, depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> results in dysregulation of meiosis-related genes, which causes failure of maturation-promoting factor (MPF) activation. ATAC-seq analysis in oocytes revealed that Snf2h regulates transcription of key meiotic genes, such as <i>Prkar2b</i>, by increasing its promoter chromatin accessibility. Thus, our studies not only demonstrate the importance of Snf2h in oocyte meiotic resumption, but also reveal the mechanism underlying how a chromatin remodeling factor can regulate oocyte meiosis."	1
"32160551"	"NRBP1-Containing CRL2/CRL4A Regulates Amyloid β Production by Targeting BRI2 and BRI3 for Degradation.Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by accumulations of Aβ peptides. Production and fibrillation of Aβ are downregulated by BRI2 and BRI3, which are physiological inhibitors of amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and Aβ oligomerization. Here, we identify nuclear receptor binding protein 1 (NRBP1) as a substrate receptor of a Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL) that targets BRI2 and BRI3 for degradation. Moreover, we demonstrate that (1) dimerized NRBP1 assembles into a functional Cul2- and Cul4A-containing heterodimeric CRL through its BC-box and an overlapping cryptic H-box, (2) both Cul2 and Cul4A contribute to NRBP1 CRL function, and (3) formation of the NRBP1 heterodimeric CRL is strongly enhanced by chaperone-like function of TSC22D3 and TSC22D4. NRBP1 knockdown in neuronal cells results in an increase in the abundance of BRI2 and BRI3 and significantly reduces Aβ production. Thus, disrupting interactions between NRBP1 and its substrates BRI2 and BRI3 may provide a useful therapeutic strategy for AD."	1
"32213324"	"Ultrastructural Details of Mammalian Chromosome Architecture.Over the past decade, 3C-related methods have provided remarkable insights into chromosome folding in vivo. To overcome the limited resolution of prior studies, we extend a recently developed Hi-C variant, Micro-C, to map chromosome architecture at nucleosome resolution in human ESCs and fibroblasts. Micro-C robustly captures known features of chromosome folding including compartment organization, topologically associating domains, and interactions between CTCF binding sites. In addition, Micro-C provides a detailed map of nucleosome positions and localizes contact domain boundaries with nucleosomal precision. Compared to Hi-C, Micro-C exhibits an order of magnitude greater dynamic range, allowing the identification of ∼20,000 additional loops in each cell type. Many newly identified peaks are localized along extrusion stripes and form transitive grids, consistent with their anchors being pause sites impeding cohesin-dependent loop extrusion. Our analyses comprise the highest-resolution maps of chromosome folding in human cells to date, providing a valuable resource for studies of chromosome organization."	0
"32023484"	"Partitioning of MLX-Family Transcription Factors to Lipid Droplets Regulates Metabolic Gene Expression.Lipid droplets (LDs) store lipids for energy and are central to cellular lipid homeostasis. The mechanisms coordinating lipid storage in LDs with cellular metabolism are unclear but relevant to obesity-related diseases. Here we utilized genome-wide screening to identify genes that modulate lipid storage in macrophages, a cell type involved in metabolic diseases. Among ∼550 identified screen hits is MLX, a basic helix-loop-helix leucine-zipper transcription factor that regulates metabolic processes. We show that MLX and glucose-sensing family members MLXIP/MondoA and MLXIPL/ChREBP bind LDs via C-terminal amphipathic helices. When LDs accumulate in cells, these transcription factors bind to LDs, reducing their availability for transcriptional activity and attenuating the response to glucose. Conversely, the absence of LDs results in hyperactivation of MLX target genes. Our findings uncover a paradigm for a lipid storage response in which binding of MLX transcription factors to LD surfaces adjusts the expression of metabolic genes to lipid storage levels."	0
"32130897"	"Interplay of Staphylococcal and Host Proteases Promotes Skin Barrier Disruption in Netherton Syndrome.Netherton syndrome (NS) is a monogenic skin disease resulting from loss of function of lymphoepithelial Kazal-type-related protease inhibitor (LEKTI-1). In this study we examine if bacteria residing on the skin are influenced by the loss of LEKTI-1 and if interaction between this human gene and resident bacteria contributes to skin disease. Shotgun sequencing of the skin microbiome demonstrates that lesional skin of NS subjects is dominated by Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) and Staphylococcus epidermidis (S. epidermidis). Isolates of either species from NS subjects are able to induce skin inflammation and barrier damage on mice. These microbes promote skin inflammation in the setting of LEKTI-1 deficiency due to excess proteolytic activity promoted by S. aureus phenol-soluble modulin α as well as increased bacterial proteases staphopain A and B from S. aureus or EcpA from S. epidermidis. These findings demonstrate the critical need for maintaining homeostasis of host and microbial proteases to prevent a human skin disease."	0
"32521267"	"Stem Cell Determinant SOX9 Promotes Lineage Plasticity and Progression in Basal-like Breast Cancer.Lineage plasticity is important for the development of basal-like breast cancer (BLBC), an aggressive cancer subtype. While BLBC is likely to originate from luminal progenitor cells, it acquires substantial basal cell features and contains a heterogenous collection of cells exhibiting basal, luminal, and hybrid phenotypes. Why luminal progenitors are prone to BLBC transformation and what drives luminal-to-basal reprogramming remain unclear. Here, we show that the transcription factor SOX9 acts as a determinant for estrogen-receptor-negative (ER<sup>-</sup>) luminal stem/progenitor cells (LSPCs). SOX9 controls LSPC activity in part by activating both canonical and non-canonical nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling. Inactivation of TP53 and RB via expression of SV40 TAg in a BLBC mouse tumor model leads to upregulation of SOX9, which drives luminal-to-basal reprogramming in vivo. Furthermore, SOX9 deletion inhibits the progression of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS)-like lesions to invasive carcinoma. These data show that ER<sup>-</sup> LSPC determinant SOX9 acts as a lineage plasticity driver for BLBC progression."	0
"32905761"	"High Dimensional Single-Cell Analysis Reveals iNKT Cell Developmental Trajectories and Effector Fate Decision.CD1d-restricted invariant Natural Killer T (iNKT) cells represent a unique class of T lymphocytes endowed with potent regulatory and effector immune functions. Although these functions are acquired during thymic ontogeny, the sequence of events that gives rise to discrete effector subsets remains unclear. Using an unbiased single-cell transcriptomic analysis combined with functional assays, we reveal an unappreciated diversity among thymic iNKT cells, especially among iNKT1 cells. Mathematical modeling and biological methods unravel a developmental map whereby iNKT2 cells constitute a transient branching point toward the generation of iNKT1 and iNKT17 cells, which reconciles the two previously proposed models. In addition, we identify the transcription co-factor Four-and-a-half LIM domains protein 2 (FHL2) as a critical cell-intrinsic regulator of iNKT1 specification. Thus, these data illustrate the changing transcriptional network that guides iNKT cell effector fate."	0
"32402286"	"CCDC57 Cooperates with Microtubules and Microcephaly Protein CEP63 and Regulates Centriole Duplication and Mitotic Progression.Centrosomes function in key cellular processes ranging from cell division to cellular signaling. Their dysfunction is linked to cancer and developmental disorders. Here, we identify CCDC57 as a pleiotropic regulator of centriole duplication, mitosis, and ciliogenesis. Combining proximity mapping with superresolution imaging, we show that CCDC57 localizes to the proximal end of centrioles and interacts with the microcephaly protein CEP63, centriolar satellite proteins, and microtubules. Loss of CCDC57 causes defects in centriole duplication and results in a failure to localize CEP63 and CEP152 to the centrosome. Additionally, CCDC57 depletion perturbs mitotic progression both in wild-type and centriole-less cells. Importantly, its centrosome-targeting region is required for its interaction with CEP63 and functions during centriole duplication and cilium assembly, whereas the microtubule-targeting region is required for its mitotic functions. Together, our results identify CCDC57 as a critical interface between centrosome and microtubule-mediated cellular processes that are deregulated in microcephaly."	1
"31054974"	"Acetylation of PHF5A Modulates Stress Responses and Colorectal Carcinogenesis through Alternative Splicing-Mediated Upregulation of KDM3A.Alternative pre-mRNA-splicing-induced post-transcriptional gene expression regulation is one of the pathways for tumors maintaining proliferation rates accompanying the malignant phenotype under stress. Here, we uncover a list of hyperacetylated proteins in the context of acutely reduced Acetyl-CoA levels under nutrient starvation. PHF5A, a component of U2 snRNPs, can be acetylated at lysine 29 in response to multiple cellular stresses, which is dependent on p300. PHF5A acetylation strengthens the interaction among U2 snRNPs and affects global pre-mRNA splicing pattern and extensive gene expression. PHF5A hyperacetylation-induced alternative splicing stabilizes KDM3A mRNA and promotes its protein expression. Pathologically, PHF5A K29 hyperacetylation and KDM3A upregulation axis are correlated with poor prognosis of colon cancer. Our findings uncover a mechanism of an anti-stress pathway through which acetylation on PHF5A promotes the cancer cells' capacity for stress resistance and consequently contributes to colon carcinogenesis."	1
"32023462"	"Cell Lineage Tracing Identifies Hormone-Regulated and Wnt-Responsive Vaginal Epithelial Stem Cells.The intact vaginal epithelium is essential for women's reproductive health and provides protection against HIV and sexually transmitted infections. How this epithelium maintains itself remains poorly understood. Here, we used single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to define the diverse cell populations in the vaginal epithelium. We show that vaginal epithelial cell proliferation is limited to the basal compartment without any obvious label-retaining cells. Furthermore, we developed vaginal organoids and show that the basal cells have increased organoid forming efficiency. Importantly, Axin2 marks a self-renewing subpopulation of basal cells that gives rise to differentiated cells over time. These cells are ovariectomy-resistant stem cells as they proliferate even in the absence of hormones. Upon hormone supplementation, these cells expand and reconstitute the entire vaginal epithelium. Wnt/β-catenin is essential for the proliferation and differentiation of vaginal stem cells. Together, these data define heterogeneity in vaginal epithelium and identify vaginal epithelial stem cells."	0
"32115406"	"Critical roles of phosphoinositides and NF2 in Hippo pathway regulation.The Hippo pathway is a master regulator of tissue homeostasis and organ size. NF2 is a well-established tumor suppressor, and loss of NF2 severely compromises Hippo pathway activity. However, the precise mechanism of how NF2 mediates upstream signals to regulate the Hippo pathway is not clear. Here we report that, in mammalian cells, NF2's lipid-binding ability is critical for its function in activating the Hippo pathway in response to osmotic stress. Mechanistically, osmotic stress induces PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> plasma membrane enrichment by activating the PIP5K family, allowing for NF2 plasma membrane recruitment and subsequent downstream Hippo pathway activation. An NF2 mutant deficient in lipid binding is unable to activate the Hippo pathway in response to osmotic stress, as measured by LATS and YAP phosphorylation. Our findings identify the PIP5K family as novel regulators upstream of Hippo signaling, and uncover the importance of phosphoinositide dynamics, specifically PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>, in Hippo pathway regulation."	1
"31561952"	"Heat Shock Factor 1 Is a Direct Antagonist of AMP-Activated Protein Kinase.Through transcriptional control of the evolutionarily conserved heat shock, or proteotoxic stress, response, heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) preserves proteomic stability. Here, we show that HSF1, a physiological substrate for AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), constitutively suppresses this central metabolic sensor. By physically evoking conformational switching of AMPK, HSF1 impairs AMP binding to the γ subunits and enhances the PP2A-mediated de-phosphorylation, but it impedes the LKB1-mediated phosphorylation of Thr172, and retards ATP binding to the catalytic α subunits. These immediate and manifold regulations empower HSF1 to both repress AMPK under basal conditions and restrain its activation by diverse stimuli, thereby promoting lipogenesis, cholesterol synthesis, and protein cholesteroylation. In vivo, HSF1 antagonizes AMPK to control body fat mass and drive the lipogenic phenotype and growth of melanomas independently of its intrinsic transcriptional action. Thus, the physical AMPK-HSF1 interaction epitomizes a reciprocal kinase-substrate regulation whereby lipid metabolism and proteomic stability intertwine."	1
"32553192"	"Intrinsically Disordered Regions Direct Transcription Factor In Vivo Binding Specificity.Transcription factors (TFs) that bind common DNA motifs in vitro occupy distinct sets of promoters in vivo, raising the question of how binding specificity is achieved. TFs are enriched with intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). Such regions commonly form promiscuous interactions, yet their unique properties might also benefit specific binding-site selection. We examine this using Msn2 and Yap1, TFs of distinct families that contain long IDRs outside their DNA-binding domains. We find that these IDRs are both necessary and sufficient for localizing to the majority of target promoters. This IDR-directed binding does not depend on any localized domain but results from a multitude of weak determinants distributed throughout the entire IDR sequence. Furthermore, IDR specificity is conserved between distant orthologs, suggesting direct interaction with multiple promoters. We propose that distribution of sensing determinants along extended IDRs accelerates binding-site detection by rapidly localizing TFs to broad DNA regions surrounding these sites."	0
"31914389"	"STCH4/REIL2 Confers Cold Stress Tolerance in Arabidopsis by Promoting rRNA Processing and CBF Protein Translation.Plants respond to cold stress by inducing the expression of transcription factors that regulate downstream genes to confer tolerance to freezing. We screened an Arabidopsis transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion library and identified a cold-hypersensitive mutant, which we named stch4 (sensitive to chilling 4). STCH4/REIL2 encodes a ribosomal biogenesis factor that is upregulated upon cold stress. Overexpression of STCH4 confers chilling and freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis. The stch4 mutation reduces CBF protein levels and thus delayed the induction of C-repeat-binding factor (CBF) regulon genes. Ribosomal RNA processing is reduced in stch4 mutants, especially under cold stress. STCH4 associates with multiple ribosomal proteins, and these interactions are modulated by cold stress. These results suggest that the ribosome is a regulatory node for cold stress responses and that STCH4 promotes an altered ribosomal composition and functions in low temperatures to facilitate the translation of proteins important for plant growth and survival under cold stress."	1
"30979586"	"ULK1 and ULK2 Regulate Stress Granule Disassembly Through Phosphorylation and Activation of VCP/p97.Disturbances in autophagy and stress granule dynamics have been implicated as potential mechanisms underlying inclusion body myopathy (IBM) and related disorders. Yet the roles of core autophagy proteins in IBM and stress granule dynamics remain poorly characterized. Here, we demonstrate that disrupted expression of the core autophagy proteins ULK1 and ULK2 in mice causes a vacuolar myopathy with ubiquitin and TDP-43-positive inclusions; this myopathy is similar to that caused by VCP/p97 mutations, the most common cause of familial IBM. Mechanistically, we show that ULK1/2 localize to stress granules and phosphorylate VCP, thereby increasing VCP's activity and ability to disassemble stress granules. These data suggest that VCP dysregulation and defective stress granule disassembly contribute to IBM-like disease in Ulk1/2-deficient mice. In addition, stress granule disassembly is accelerated by an ULK1/2 agonist, suggesting ULK1/2 as targets for exploiting the higher-order regulation of stress granules for therapeutic intervention of IBM and related disorders."	1
"30849391"	"The Yeast Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel Porin: More IMPORTant than Just Metabolite Transport.Porin is crucial for metabolite flux in mitochondria. In this issue of Molecular Cell, Sakaue et al. (2019) and Ellenrieder et al. (2019) describe an unexpected role for Porin in mitochondrial protein import by regulating the oligomeric state of the major protein import gate, the TOM complex, and the inner membrane insertion of metabolite carriers."	0
"31914390"	"RHON1 Co-transcriptionally Resolves R-Loops for Arabidopsis Chloroplast Genome Maintenance.Preventing transcription-replication head-on conflict (HO-TRC)-triggered R-loop formation is essential for maintaining genome integrity in bacteria, plants, and mammals. The R-loop eraser RNase H can efficiently relax HO-TRCs. However, it is not clear how organisms resist HO-TRC-triggered R-loops when RNase H proteins are deficient. By screening factors that may relieve R-loop accumulation in the Arabidopsis atrnh1c mutant, we find that overexpression of the R-loop helicase RHON1 can rescue the defects of aberrantly accumulated HO-TRC-triggered R-loops co-transcriptionally. In addition, we find that RHON1 interacts with and orchestrates the transcriptional activity of plastid-encoded RNA polymerases to release the conflicts between transcription and replication. Our study illustrates that organisms employ multiple mechanisms to escape HO-TRC-triggered R-loop accumulation and thus maintain genome integrity."	0
"32616652"	"Garcinoic acid prevents β-amyloid (Aβ) deposition in the mouse brain.Garcinoic acid (GA or δ-T3-13'COOH), is a natural vitamin E metabolite that has preliminarily been identified as a modulator of nuclear receptors involved in β-amyloid (Aβ) metabolism and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we investigated GA's effects on Aβ oligomer formation and deposition. Specifically, we compared them with those of other vitamin E analogs and the soy isoflavone genistein, a natural agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) that has therapeutic potential for managing AD. GA significantly reduced Aβ aggregation and accumulation in mouse cortical astrocytes. Similarly to genistein, GA up-regulated PPARγ expression and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) efflux in these cells with an efficacy that was comparable with that of its metabolic precursor δ-tocotrienol and higher than those of α-tocopherol metabolites. Unlike for genistein and the other vitamin E compounds, the GA-induced restoration of ApoE efflux was not affected by pharmacological inhibition of PPARγ activity, and specific activation of pregnane X receptor (PXR) was observed together with ApoE and multidrug resistance protein 1 (MDR1) membrane transporter up-regulation in both the mouse astrocytes and brain tissue. These effects of GA were associated with reduced Aβ deposition in the brain of TgCRND8 mice, a transgenic AD model. In conclusion, GA holds potential for preventing Aβ oligomerization and deposition in the brain. The mechanistic aspects of GA's properties appear to be distinct from those of other vitamin E metabolites and of genistein."	0
"32822587"	"Functional Interplay between Histone H2B ADP-Ribosylation and Phosphorylation Controls Adipogenesis.Although ADP-ribosylation of histones by PARP-1 has been linked to genotoxic stress responses, its role in physiological processes and gene expression has remained elusive. We found that NAD<sup>+</sup>-dependent ADP-ribosylation of histone H2B-Glu35 by small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA)-activated PARP-1 inhibits AMP kinase-mediated phosphorylation of adjacent H2B-Ser36, which is required for the proadipogenic gene expression program. The activity of PARP-1 on H2B requires NMNAT-1, a nuclear NAD<sup>+</sup> synthase, which directs PARP-1 catalytic activity to Glu and Asp residues. ADP-ribosylation of Glu35 and the subsequent reduction of H2B-Ser36 phosphorylation inhibits the differentiation of adipocyte precursors in cultured cells. Parp1 knockout in preadipocytes in a mouse lineage-tracing genetic model increases adipogenesis, leading to obesity. Collectively, our results demonstrate a functional interplay between H2B-Glu35 ADP-ribosylation and H2B-Ser36 phosphorylation that controls adipogenesis."	1
"32738194"	"Quality Control of ER Membrane Proteins by the RNF185/Membralin Ubiquitin Ligase Complex.Misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are degraded by ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Although ERAD components involved in degradation of luminal substrates are well characterized, much less is known about quality control of membrane proteins. Here, we analyzed the degradation pathways of two short-lived ER membrane model proteins in mammalian cells. Using a CRISPR-Cas9 genome-wide library screen, we identified an ERAD branch required for quality control of a subset of membrane proteins. Using biochemical and mass spectrometry approaches, we showed that this ERAD branch is defined by an ER membrane complex consisting of the ubiquitin ligase RNF185, the ubiquitin-like domain containing proteins TMUB1/2 and TMEM259/Membralin, a poorly characterized protein. This complex cooperates with cytosolic ubiquitin ligase UBE3C and p97 ATPase in degrading their membrane substrates. Our data reveal that ERAD branches have remarkable specificity for their membrane substrates, suggesting that multiple, perhaps combinatorial, determinants are involved in substrate selection."	1
"32698012"	"Complexin Suppresses Spontaneous Exocytosis by Capturing the Membrane-Proximal Regions of VAMP2 and SNAP25.The neuronal protein complexin contains multiple domains that exert clamping and facilitatory functions to tune spontaneous and action potential-triggered synaptic release. We address the clamping mechanism and show that the accessory helix of complexin arrests assembly of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex that forms the core machinery of intracellular membrane fusion. In a reconstituted fusion assay, site- and stage-specific photo-cross-linking reveals that, prior to fusion, the complexin accessory helix laterally binds the membrane-proximal C-terminal ends of SNAP25 and VAMP2. Corresponding complexin interface mutants selectively increase spontaneous release of neurotransmitters in living neurons, implying that the accessory helix suppresses final zippering/assembly of the SNARE four-helix bundle by restraining VAMP2 and SNAP25."	0
"31629659"	"KDM3A Senses Oxygen Availability to Regulate PGC-1α-Mediated Mitochondrial Biogenesis.Hypoxia, which occurs during tumor growth, triggers complex adaptive responses in which peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α) plays a critical role in mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. However, how PGC-1α is regulated in response to oxygen availability remains unclear. We demonstrated that lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) binds to PGC-1α and demethylates monomethylated lysine (K) 224 of PGC-1α under normoxic conditions. Hypoxic stimulation inhibits KDM3A, which has a high K<sub>M</sub> of oxygen for its activity, and enhances PGC-1α K224 monomethylation. This modification decreases PGC-1α's activity required for NRF1- and NRF2-dependent transcriptional regulation of TFAM, TFB1M, and TFB2M, resulting in reduced mitochondrial biogenesis. Expression of PGC-1α K224R mutant significantly increases mitochondrial biogenesis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and tumor cell apoptosis under hypoxia and inhibits brain tumor growth in mice. This study revealed that PGC-1α monomethylation, which is dependent on oxygen availability-regulated KDM3A, plays a critical role in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis."	1
"30824372"	"P-TEFb Activation by RBM7 Shapes a Pro-survival Transcriptional Response to Genotoxic Stress.DNA damage response (DDR) involves dramatic transcriptional alterations, the mechanisms of which remain ill defined. Here, we show that following genotoxic stress, the RNA-binding motif protein 7 (RBM7) stimulates RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription and promotes cell viability by activating the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) via its release from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (7SK snRNP). This is mediated by activation of p38<sup>MAPK</sup>, which triggers enhanced binding of RBM7 with core subunits of 7SK snRNP. In turn, P-TEFb relocates to chromatin to induce transcription of short units, including key DDR genes and multiple classes of non-coding RNAs. Critically, interfering with the axis of RBM7 and P-TEFb provokes cellular hypersensitivity to DNA-damage-inducing agents due to activation of apoptosis. Our work uncovers the importance of stress-dependent stimulation of Pol II pause release, which enables a pro-survival transcriptional response that is crucial for cell fate upon genotoxic insult."	1
"32268080"	"A Targeted Multi-omic Analysis Approach Measures Protein Expression and Low-Abundance Transcripts on the Single-Cell Level.High-throughput single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has become a frequently used tool to assess immune cell heterogeneity. Recently, the combined measurement of RNA and protein expression was developed, commonly known as cellular indexing of transcriptomes and epitopes by sequencing (CITE-seq). Acquisition of protein expression data along with transcriptome data resolves some of the limitations inherent to only assessing transcripts but also nearly doubles the sequencing read depth required per single cell. Furthermore, there is still a paucity of analysis tools to visualize combined transcript-protein datasets. Here, we describe a targeted transcriptomics approach that combines an analysis of over 400 genes with simultaneous measurement of over 40 proteins on 2 × 10<sup>4</sup> cells in a single experiment. This targeted approach requires only about one-tenth of the read depth compared to a whole-transcriptome approach while retaining high sensitivity for low abundance transcripts. To analyze these multi-omic datasets, we adapted one-dimensional soli expression by nonlinear stochastic embedding (One-SENSE) for intuitive visualization of protein-transcript relationships on a single-cell level."	0
"32877675"	"Controlled Cycling and Quiescence Enables Efficient HDR in Engraftment-Enriched Adult Hematopoietic Stem and Progenitor Cells.Genome editing often takes the form of either error-prone sequence disruption by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) or sequence replacement by homology-directed repair (HDR). Although NHEJ is generally effective, HDR is often difficult in primary cells. Here, we use a combination of immunophenotyping, next-generation sequencing, and single-cell RNA sequencing to investigate and reprogram genome editing outcomes in subpopulations of adult hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. We find that although quiescent stem-enriched cells mostly use NHEJ, non-quiescent cells with the same immunophenotype use both NHEJ and HDR. Inducing quiescence before editing results in a loss of HDR in all cell subtypes. We develop a strategy of controlled cycling and quiescence that yields a 6-fold increase in the HDR/NHEJ ratio in quiescent stem cells ex vivo and in vivo. Our results highlight the tension between editing and cellular physiology and suggest strategies to manipulate quiescent cells for research and therapeutic genome editing."	0
"32451439"	"ROCK-mediated selective activation of PERK signalling causes fibroblast reprogramming and tumour progression through a CRELD2-dependent mechanism.It is well accepted that cancers co-opt the microenvironment for their growth. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie cancer-microenvironment interactions are still poorly defined. Here, we show that Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) in the mammary tumour epithelium selectively actuates protein-kinase-R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), causing the recruitment and persistent education of tumour-promoting cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which are part of the cancer microenvironment. An analysis of tumours from patients and mice reveals that cysteine-rich with EGF-like domains 2 (CRELD2) is the paracrine factor that underlies PERK-mediated CAF education downstream of ROCK. We find that CRELD2 is regulated by PERK-regulated ATF4, and depleting CRELD2 suppressed tumour progression, demonstrating that the paracrine ROCK-PERK-ATF4-CRELD2 axis promotes the progression of breast cancer, with implications for cancer therapy."	1
"31522989"	"A Complex of U1 snRNP with Cleavage and Polyadenylation Factors Controls Telescripting, Regulating mRNA Transcription in Human Cells.Full-length transcription in the majority of human genes depends on U1 snRNP (U1) to co-transcriptionally suppress transcription-terminating premature 3' end cleavage and polyadenylation (PCPA) from cryptic polyadenylation signals (PASs) in introns. However, the mechanism of this U1 activity, termed telescripting, is unknown. Here, we captured a complex, comprising U1 and CPA factors (U1-CPAFs), that binds intronic PASs and suppresses PCPA. U1-CPAFs are distinct from U1-spliceosomal complexes; they include CPA's three main subunits, CFIm, CPSF, and CstF; lack essential splicing factors; and associate with transcription elongation and mRNA export complexes. Telescripting requires U1:pre-mRNA base-pairing, which can be disrupted by U1 antisense oligonucleotide (U1 AMO), triggering PCPA. U1 AMO remodels U1-CPAFs, revealing changes, including recruitment of CPA-stimulating factors, that explain U1-CPAFs' switch from repressive to activated states. Our findings outline this U1 telescripting mechanism and demonstrate U1's unique role as central regulator of pre-mRNA processing and transcription."	0
"32004469"	"Toward a Structural Understanding of Class B GPCR Peptide Binding and Activation.Class B G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are important therapeutic targets for major diseases. Here, we present structures of peptide and Gs-bound pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide, PAC1 receptor, and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), (CRF1) receptor. Together with recently solved structures, these provide coverage of the major class B GPCR subfamilies. Diverse orientations of the extracellular domain to the receptor core in different receptors are at least partially dependent on evolutionary conservation in the structure and nature of peptide interactions. Differences in peptide interactions to the receptor core also influence the interlinked TM2-TM1-TM6/ECL3/TM7 domain, and this is likely important in their diverse signaling. However, common conformational reorganization of ECL2, linked to reorganization of ICL2, modulates G protein contacts. Comparison between receptors reveals ICL2 as a key domain forming dynamic G protein interactions in a receptor- and ligand-specific manner. This work advances our understanding of class B GPCR activation and Gs coupling."	0
"32888435"	"Resveratrol: Friend or Foe?In this issue of Molecular Cell, Benslimane et al. (2020) perform a CRISPR-Cas9 chemogenomic screen, identifying a network of DNA replication and genome integrity genes with the nutraceutical compound Resveratrol and its analog Pterostilbene, linking these compounds to the induction of DNA replication stress in mammalian cells."	0
"31784358"	"MeCP2 Represses the Rate of Transcriptional Initiation of Highly Methylated Long Genes.Mutations in the methyl-DNA-binding repressor protein MeCP2 cause the devastating neurodevelopmental disorder Rett syndrome. It has been challenging to understand how MeCP2 regulates transcription because MeCP2 binds broadly across the genome and MeCP2 mutations are associated with widespread small-magnitude changes in neuronal gene expression. We demonstrate here that MeCP2 represses nascent RNA transcription of highly methylated long genes in the brain through its interaction with the NCoR co-repressor complex. By measuring the rates of transcriptional initiation and elongation directly in the brain, we find that MeCP2 has no measurable effect on transcriptional elongation, but instead represses the rate at which Pol II initiates transcription of highly methylated long genes. These findings suggest a new model of MeCP2 function in which MeCP2 binds broadly across highly methylated regions of DNA, but acts at transcription start sites to attenuate transcriptional initiation."	0
"32579925"	"Stabilization of Endothelial Receptor Arrays by a Polarized Spectrin Cytoskeleton Facilitates Rolling and Adhesion of Leukocytes.Multivalent complexes of endothelial adhesion receptors (e.g., selectins) engage leukocytes to orchestrate their migration to inflamed tissues. Proper anchorage and sufficient density (clustering) of endothelial receptors are required for efficient leukocyte capture and rolling. We demonstrate that a polarized spectrin network dictates the stability of the endothelial cytoskeleton, which is attached to the apical membrane, at least in part, by the abundant transmembrane protein CD44. Single-particle tracking revealed that CD44 undergoes prolonged periods of immobilization as it tethers to the cytoskeleton. The CD44-spectrin ""picket fence"" alters the behavior of bystander molecules-notably, selectins-curtailing their mobility, inducing their apical accumulation, and favoring their clustering within caveolae. Accordingly, depletion of either spectrin or CD44 virtually eliminated leukocyte rolling and adhesion to the endothelium. Our results indicate that a unique spectrin-based apical cytoskeleton tethered to transmembrane pickets-notably, CD44-is essential for proper extravasation of leukocytes in response to inflammation."	0
"32130900"	"The Interplay between CD27<sup>dull</sup> and CD27<sup>bright</sup> B Cells Ensures the Flexibility, Stability, and Resilience of Human B Cell Memory.Memory B cells (MBCs) epitomize the adaptation of the immune system to the environment. We identify two MBC subsets in peripheral blood, CD27<sup>dull</sup> and CD27<sup>bright</sup> MBCs, whose frequency changes with age. Heavy chain variable region (VH) usage, somatic mutation frequency replacement-to-silent ratio, and CDR3 property changes, reflecting consecutive selection of highly antigen-specific, low cross-reactive antibody variants, all demonstrate that CD27<sup>dull</sup> and CD27<sup>bright</sup> MBCs represent sequential MBC developmental stages, and stringent antigen-driven pressure selects CD27<sup>dull</sup> into the CD27<sup>bright</sup> MBC pool. Dynamics of human MBCs are exploited in pregnancy, when 50% of maternal MBCs are lost and CD27<sup>dull</sup> MBCs transit to the more differentiated CD27<sup>bright</sup> stage. In the postpartum period, the maternal MBC pool is replenished by the expansion of persistent CD27<sup>dull</sup> clones. Thus, the stability and flexibility of human B cell memory is ensured by CD27<sup>dull</sup> MBCs that expand and differentiate in response to change."	0
"31402097"	"Osh Proteins Control Nanoscale Lipid Organization Necessary for PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> Synthesis.The plasma membrane (PM) is composed of a complex lipid mixture that forms heterogeneous membrane environments. Yet, how small-scale lipid organization controls physiological events at the PM remains largely unknown. Here, we show that ORP-related Osh lipid exchange proteins are critical for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>], a key regulator of dynamic events at the PM. In real-time assays, we find that unsaturated phosphatidylserine (PS) and sterols, both Osh protein ligands, synergistically stimulate phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) activity. Biophysical FRET analyses suggest an unconventional co-distribution of unsaturated PS and phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) species in sterol-containing membrane bilayers. Moreover, using in vivo imaging approaches and molecular dynamics simulations, we show that Osh protein-mediated unsaturated PI4P and PS membrane lipid organization is sensed by the PIP5K specificity loop. Thus, ORP family members create a nanoscale membrane lipid environment that drives PIP5K activity and PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> synthesis that ultimately controls global PM organization and dynamics."	1
"32611765"	"Synthetic interleukin 22 (IL-22) signaling reveals biological activity of homodimeric IL-10 receptor 2 and functional cross-talk with the IL-6 receptor gp130.Cytokine signaling is transmitted by cell-surface receptors that function as biological switches controlling mainly immune-related processes. Recently, we have designed synthetic cytokine receptors (SyCyRs) consisting of GFP and mCherry nanobodies fused to transmembrane and intracellular domains of cytokine receptors that phenocopy cytokine signaling induced by nonphysiological homo- and heterodimeric GFP-mCherry ligands. Interleukin 22 (IL-22) signals via both IL-22 receptor α1 (IL-22Rα1) and the common IL-10R2, belongs to the IL-10 cytokine family, and is critically involved in tissue regeneration. Here, IL-22 SyCyRs phenocopied native IL-22 signal transduction, indicated by induction of cytokine-dependent cellular proliferation, signal transduction, and transcriptome analysis. Whereas homodimeric IL-22Rα1 SyCyRs failed to activate signaling, homodimerization of the second IL-22 signaling chain, SyCyR(IL-10R2), which previously was considered not to induce signal transduction, led to induction of signal transduction. Interestingly, the SyCyR(IL-10R2) and SyCyR(IL-22Rα1) constructs could form functional heterodimeric receptor signaling complexes with the synthetic IL-6 receptor chain SyCyR(gp130). In summary, we have demonstrated that IL-22 signaling can be phenocopied by synthetic cytokine receptors, identified a functional IL-10R2 homodimeric receptor complex, and uncovered broad receptor cross-talk of IL-22Rα1 and IL-20R2 with gp130."	0
"32572169"	"SPIN90 associates with mDia1 and the Arp2/3 complex to regulate cortical actin organization.Cell shape is controlled by the submembranous cortex, an actomyosin network mainly generated by two actin nucleators: the Arp2/3 complex and the formin mDia1. Changes in relative nucleator activity may alter cortical organization, mechanics and cell shape. Here we investigate how nucleation-promoting factors mediate interactions between nucleators. In vitro, the nucleation-promoting factor SPIN90 promotes formation of unbranched filaments by Arp2/3, a process thought to provide the initial filament for generation of dendritic networks. Paradoxically, in cells, SPIN90 appears to favour a formin-dominated cortex. Our in vitro experiments reveal that this feature stems mainly from two mechanisms: efficient recruitment of mDia1 to SPIN90-Arp2/3 nucleated filaments and formation of a ternary SPIN90-Arp2/3-mDia1 complex that greatly enhances filament nucleation. Both mechanisms yield rapidly elongating filaments with mDia1 at their barbed ends and SPIN90-Arp2/3 at their pointed ends. Thus, in networks, SPIN90 lowers branching densities and increases the proportion of long filaments elongated by mDia1."	0
"32649882"	"Tandem Deubiquitination and Acetylation of SPRTN Promotes DNA-Protein Crosslink Repair and Protects against Aging.DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are highly toxic DNA lesions that threaten genomic integrity. Recent findings highlight that SPRTN, a specialized DNA-dependent metalloprotease, is a central player in proteolytic cleavage of DPCs. Previous studies suggest that SPRTN deubiquitination is important for its chromatin association and activation. However, the regulation and consequences of SPRTN deubiquitination remain unclear. Here we report that, in response to DPC induction, the deubiquitinase VCPIP1/VCIP135 is phosphorylated and activated by ATM/ATR. VCPIP1, in turn, deubiquitinates SPRTN and promotes its chromatin relocalization. Deubiquitination of SPRTN is required for its subsequent acetylation, which promotes SPRTN relocation to the site of chromatin damage. Furthermore, Vcpip1 knockout mice are prone to genomic instability and premature aging. We propose a model where two sequential post-translational modifications (PTMs) regulate SPRTN chromatin accessibility to repair DPCs and maintain genomic stability and a healthy lifespan."	1
"32873577"	"Mixed knobs in corn cobs.Maize heterochromatic knobs cheat female meiosis by forming neocentromeres that bias their segregation into the future egg cell. In this issue of <i>Genes & Development</i>, Swentowsky and colleagues (pp. 1239-1251) show that two types of knobs, those composed of 180-bp and TR1 sequences, recruit their own novel and divergent kinesin-14 family members to form neocentromeres."	0
"31053472"	"Ca<sup>2+</sup>-Stimulated AMPK-Dependent Phosphorylation of Exo1 Protects Stressed Replication Forks from Aberrant Resection.Abnormal processing of stressed replication forks by nucleases can cause fork collapse, genomic instability, and cell death. Despite its importance, it is poorly understood how the cell properly controls nucleases to prevent detrimental fork processing. Here, we report a signaling pathway that controls the activity of exonuclease Exo1 to prevent aberrant fork resection during replication stress. Our results indicate that replication stress elevates intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> concentration ([Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub>), leading to activation of CaMKK2 and the downstream kinase 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Following activation, AMPK directly phosphorylates Exo1 at serine 746 to promote 14-3-3 binding and inhibit Exo1 recruitment to stressed replication forks, thereby avoiding unscheduled fork resection. Disruption of this signaling pathway results in excessive ssDNA, chromosomal instability, and hypersensitivity to replication stress inducers. These findings reveal a link between [Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub> and the replication stress response as well as a function of the Ca<sup>2+</sup>-CaMKK2-AMPK signaling axis in safeguarding fork structure to maintain genome stability."	1
"32059760"	"A Conserved Kinase-Based Body-Temperature Sensor Globally Controls Alternative Splicing and Gene Expression.Homeothermic organisms maintain their core body temperature in a narrow, tightly controlled range. Whether and how subtle circadian oscillations or disease-associated changes in core body temperature are sensed and integrated in gene expression programs remain elusive. Furthermore, a thermo-sensor capable of sensing the small temperature differentials leading to temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) in poikilothermic reptiles has not been identified. Here, we show that the activity of CDC-like kinases (CLKs) is highly responsive to physiological temperature changes, which is conferred by structural rearrangements within the kinase activation segment. Lower body temperature activates CLKs resulting in strongly increased phosphorylation of SR proteins in vitro and in vivo. This globally controls temperature-dependent alternative splicing and gene expression, with wide implications in circadian, tissue-specific, and disease-associated settings. This temperature sensor is conserved across evolution and adapted to growth temperatures of diverse poikilotherms. The dynamic temperature range of reptilian CLK homologs suggests a role in TSD."	1
"32101749"	"Tumor-Derived Lactic Acid Contributes to the Paucity of Intratumoral ILC2s.Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) are abundant in non-lymphoid tissues and increase following infectious and inflammatory insults. In solid tumors, however, ILC2s constitute a relatively small proportion of immune cells. Here, we show, using melanoma as a model, that while the IL-33/IL C2/eosinophil axis suppresses tumor growth, tumor-derived lactate attenuates the function and survival of ILC2s. Melanomas with reduced lactate production (LDHA<sup>low</sup>) are growth delayed and typified by an increased number of ILC2s compared with control tumors. Upon IL-33 stimulation, ILC2s accompanied by eosinophils more effectively restrain the growth of LDHA<sup>low</sup> tumors than control melanomas. Furthermore, database analysis reveals a negative correlation between the expression of LDHA and markers associated with ILC2s and the association of high expression of IL33 and an eosinophil marker SIGLEC8 with better overall survival in human cutaneous melanoma patients. This work demonstrates that the balance between the IL-33/ILC2/eosinophil axis and lactate production by tumor cells regulates melanoma growth."	0
"31924447"	"Directed RNase H Cleavage of Nascent Transcripts Causes Transcription Termination.An attractive approach to reduce gene expression is via the use of antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) that harness the RNase H1 mechanism. Here we show that RNase H ASOs targeted to introns or exons robustly reduce the level of spliced RNA associated with chromatin. Surprisingly, intron-targeted ASOs reduce the level of pre-mRNA associated with chromatin to a greater extent than exon-targeted ASOs. This indicates that exon-targeted ASOs achieve full activity after the pre-mRNA has undergone splicing, but before the mRNA is released from chromatin. Even though RNase H ASOs can reduce the level of RNA associated with chromatin, the effect of ASO-directed RNA degradation on transcription has never been documented. Here we show that intron-targeted ASOs and, to a lesser extent, exon-targeted ASOs cause RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription termination in cultured cells and mice. Furthermore, ASO-directed transcription termination is mediated by the nuclear exonuclease XRN2."	0
"30952515"	"Interleukin-1β Induces mtDNA Release to Activate Innate Immune Signaling via cGAS-STING.Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) is a pleiotropic mediator of inflammation and is produced in response to a wide range of stimuli. During infection, IL-1β production occurs in parallel with the onset of innate antimicrobial defenses, but the contribution of IL-1β signaling to cell-intrinsic immunity is not defined. Here, we report that exogenous IL-1β induces interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) activation in human myeloid, fibroblast, and epithelial cells. IRF3 activation by IL-1β is dependent upon the DNA-sensing pathway adaptor, stimulator of interferon genes (STING), through the recognition of cytosolic mtDNA by cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-AMP synthase (cGAS). IL-1β treatment results in interferon (IFN) production and activation of IFN signaling to direct a potent innate immune response that restricts dengue virus infection. This study identifies a new function for IL-1β in the onset or enhancement of cell-intrinsic immunity, with important implications for cGAS-STING in integrating inflammatory and microbial cues for host defense."	1
"32668247"	"Zinc Finger Protein St18 Protects against Septic Death by Inhibiting VEGF-A from Macrophages.Zinc finger protein St18 was initially reported as candidate tumor suppressor gene, and also suggested that fibroblast St18 positively regulates NF-κB activation. Despite the pleiotropic functions of St18, little is known about its roles in macrophages. Here, we report that myeloid St18 is a potent inhibitor of VEGF-A. Mice lacking St18 in myeloid lineages exhibit increased retinal vasculature with enhanced serum VEGF-A concentrations. Despite the normal activation of NF-κB target genes, these mice are highly susceptible to LPS-induced shock, polymicrobial sepsis, and experimental colitis, accompanied by enhanced vascular and intestinal leakage. Pharmacological inhibition of VEGF signaling rescued the high mortality rate of myeloid-specific St18-deficient mice in response to inflammation. Mechanistically, St18 directly binds to Sp1 and attenuates its activity, leading to the suppression of Sp1 target gene VEGF-A. Using mouse genetic and pharmacological models, we reveal myeloid St18 as a critical septic death protector."	1
"32610129"	"Angiocrine Sphingosine-1-Phosphate Activation of S1PR2-YAP Signaling Axis in Alveolar Type II Cells Is Essential for Lung Repair.Lung alveolar epithelium is composed of alveolar type I (AT1) and type II (AT2) cells. AT1 cells mediate gas exchange, whereas AT2 cells act as progenitor cells to repair injured alveoli. Lung microvascular endothelial cells (LMVECs) play a crucial but still poorly understood role in regulating alveolar repair. Here, we studied the role of the LMVEC-derived bioactive lipid sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) in promoting alveolar repair using mice with endothelial-specific deletion of sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1), the key enzyme promoting S1P generation. These mutant lungs developed airspace-enlargement lesions and exhibited a reduced number of AT1 cells after Pseudomonas-aeruginosa-induced lung injury. We demonstrated that S1P released by LMVECs acted via its receptor, S1PR2, on AT2 cells and induced nuclear translocation of yes-associated protein (YAP), a regulator of AT2 to AT1 transition. Thus, angiocrine S1P released after injury acts via the S1PR2-YAP signaling axis on AT2 cells to promote AT2 to AT1 differentiation required for alveolar repair."	1
"32075763"	"The Human Cytomegalovirus pUL145 Isoforms Act as Viral DDB1-Cullin-Associated Factors to Instruct Host Protein Degradation to Impede Innate Immunity.Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) causes diseases in individuals with immature or compromised immunity. To evade immune control, HCMV evolved numerous antagonists targeting the interferon system at multiple levels. By comparative analysis of naturally arising variants of the most widely studied HCMV strain, AD169, and a panel of targeted mutants, we uncover the UL145 gene as indispensable for STAT2 downregulation. Ribosome profiling confirms the translation of the canonical pUL145 protein (pUL145-Long) and newly identifies a shorter isoform (pUL145-Short). Both isoforms recruit DDB1-containing ubiquitin ligases to induce proteasomal degradation of STAT2. An alanine-scanning mutagenesis discloses the DDB1 interaction motif of pUL145 that resembles the DDB1-binding interface of cellular substrate receptors of DDB1-containing ubiquitin ligases. Thus, pUL145 constitutes a viral DDB1-cullin-associated factor (vDCAF), which mimics cellular DCAFs to exploit the ubiquitin-proteasome system to impede antiviral immunity. Notably, the viral exploitation of the cullins can be targeted to restore the efficacy of the host immune response."	0
"32268097"	"Differentiation Paths of Peyer's Patch LysoDCs Are Linked to Sampling Site Positioning, Migration, and T Cell Priming.The monocyte-derived phagocytes termed LysoDCs are hallmarks of Peyer's patches, where their main function is to sample intestinal microorganisms. Here, we study their differentiation pathways in relation with their sampling, migratory, and T cell-priming abilities. Among four identified LysoDC differentiation stages displaying similar phagocytic activity, one is located in follicles, and the others reside in subepithelial domes (SED), where they proliferate and mature as they get closer to the epithelium. Mature LysoDCs but not macrophages express a gene set in common with conventional dendritic cells and prime naive helper T cells in vitro. At steady state, they do not migrate into naive T cell-enriched interfollicular regions (IFRs), but upon stimulation, they express the chemokine receptor CCR7 and migrate from SED to the IFR periphery, where they strongly interact with proliferative immune cells. Finally, we show that LysoDCs populate human Peyer's patches, strengthening their interest as targets for modulating intestinal immunity."	0
"32460026"	"Synthetic Lethality between DNA Polymerase Epsilon and RTEL1 in Metazoan DNA Replication.Genome stability requires coordination of DNA replication origin activation and replication fork progression. RTEL1 is a regulator of homologous recombination (HR) implicated in meiotic cross-over control and DNA repair in C. elegans. Through a genome-wide synthetic lethal screen, we uncovered an essential genetic interaction between RTEL1 and DNA polymerase (Pol) epsilon. Loss of POLE4, an accessory subunit of Pol epsilon, has no overt phenotype in worms. In contrast, the combined loss of POLE-4 and RTEL-1 results in embryonic lethality, accumulation of HR intermediates, genome instability, and cessation of DNA replication. Similarly, loss of Rtel1 in Pole4<sup>-/-</sup> mouse cells inhibits cellular proliferation, which is associated with persistent HR intermediates and incomplete DNA replication. We propose that RTEL1 facilitates genome-wide fork progression through its ability to metabolize DNA secondary structures that form during DNA replication. Loss of this function becomes incompatible with cell survival under conditions of reduced origin activation, such as Pol epsilon hypomorphy."	0
"32753672"	"Mammalian Atg8 proteins and the autophagy factor IRGM control mTOR and TFEB at a regulatory node critical for responses to pathogens.Autophagy is a homeostatic process with multiple functions in mammalian cells. Here, we show that mammalian Atg8 proteins (mAtg8s) and the autophagy regulator IRGM control TFEB, a transcriptional activator of the lysosomal system. IRGM directly interacted with TFEB and promoted the nuclear translocation of TFEB. An mAtg8 partner of IRGM, GABARAP, interacted with TFEB. Deletion of all mAtg8s or GABARAPs affected the global transcriptional response to starvation and downregulated subsets of TFEB targets. IRGM and GABARAPs countered the action of mTOR as a negative regulator of TFEB. This was suppressed by constitutively active RagB, an activator of mTOR. Infection of macrophages with the membrane-permeabilizing microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis or infection of target cells by HIV elicited TFEB activation in an IRGM-dependent manner. Thus, IRGM and its interactors mAtg8s close a loop between the autophagosomal pathway and the control of lysosomal biogenesis by TFEB, thus ensuring coordinated activation of the two systems that eventually merge during autophagy."	1
"32294431"	"Network Analysis of Murine Cortical Dynamics Implicates Untuned Neurons in Visual Stimulus Coding.Unbiased and dense sampling of large populations of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in mouse primary visual cortex (V1) reveals two functional sub-populations: neurons tuned and untuned to drifting gratings. Whether functional interactions between these two groups contribute to the representation of visual stimuli is unclear. To examine these interactions, we summarize the population partial pairwise correlation structure as a directed and weighted graph. We find that tuned and untuned neurons have distinct topological properties, with untuned neurons occupying central positions in functional networks (FNs). Implementation of a decoder that utilizes the topology of these FNs yields accurate decoding of visual stimuli. We further show that decoding performance degrades comparably following manipulations of either tuned or untuned neurons. Our results demonstrate that untuned neurons are an integral component of V1 FNs and suggest that network interactions contain information about the stimulus that is accessible to downstream elements."	0
"32294446"	"Contributions of the Conserved Insect Carbon Dioxide Receptor Subunits to Odor Detection.The CO<sub>2</sub> receptor in mosquitoes is broadly tuned to detect many diverse odorants. The receptor consists of three subunits (Gr1, Gr2, and Gr3) in mosquitoes but only two subunits in Drosophila: Gr21a (Gr1 ortholog) and Gr63a (Gr3 ortholog). We demonstrate that Gr21a is required for CO<sub>2</sub> responses in Drosophila, as has been shown for Gr63a. Next, we generate a Drosophila double mutant for Gr21a and Gr63a, and in this background, we functionally express combinations of Aedes Gr1, Gr2, and Gr3 genes in the CO<sub>2</sub> empty neuron. Only two subunits, Gr2 and Gr3, suffice for response to CO<sub>2</sub>. Addition of Gr1 increases sensitivity to CO<sub>2</sub>, whereas it decreases the response to pyridine. The inhibitory effect of the antagonist isobutyric acid is observed upon addition of Gr1. Gr1 therefore increases the diversity of ligands of the receptor and modulates the response of the receptor complex."	0
"32023470"	"OTUB1 Is a Key Regulator of RIG-I-Dependent Immune Signaling and Is Targeted for Proteasomal Degradation by Influenza A NS1.Deubiquitylases (DUBs) regulate critical signaling pathways at the intersection of host immunity and viral pathogenesis. Although RIG-I activation is heavily dependent on ubiquitylation, systematic analyses of DUBs that regulate this pathway have not been performed. Using a ubiquitin C-terminal electrophile, we profile DUBs that function during influenza A virus (IAV) infection and isolate OTUB1 as a key regulator of RIG-I-dependent antiviral responses. Upon infection, OTUB1 relocalizes from the nucleus to mitochondrial membranes together with RIG-I, viral PB2, and NS1. Its expression depends on competing effects of interferon stimulation and IAV-triggered degradation. OTUB1 activates RIG-I via a dual mechanism of K48 polyubiquitin hydrolysis and formation of an E2-repressive complex with UBCH5c. We reconstitute this mechanism in a cell-free system comprising [<sup>35</sup>S]IRF3, purified RIG-I, mitochondrial membranes, and cytosol expressing OTUB1 variants. A range of IAV NS1 proteins trigger proteasomal degradation of OTUB1, antagonizing the RIG-I signaling cascade and antiviral responses."	1
"31901446"	"Su(var)2-10 and the SUMO Pathway Link piRNA-Guided Target Recognition to Chromatin Silencing.Regulation of transcription is the main mechanism responsible for precise control of gene expression. Whereas the majority of transcriptional regulation is mediated by DNA-binding transcription factors that bind to regulatory gene regions, an elegant alternative strategy employs small RNA guides, Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) to identify targets of transcriptional repression. Here, we show that in Drosophila the small ubiquitin-like protein SUMO and the SUMO E3 ligase Su(var)2-10 are required for piRNA-guided deposition of repressive chromatin marks and transcriptional silencing of piRNA targets. Su(var)2-10 links the piRNA-guided target recognition complex to the silencing effector by binding the piRNA/Piwi complex and inducing SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde histone methyltransferase effector. We propose that in Drosophila, the nuclear piRNA pathway has co-opted a conserved mechanism of SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde chromatin modifier to confer repression of genomic parasites."	1
"32240602"	"Cdk1 Controls Global Epigenetic Landscape in Embryonic Stem Cells.The cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdk1) drives cell division. To uncover additional functions of Cdk1, we generated knockin mice expressing an analog-sensitive version of Cdk1 in place of wild-type Cdk1. In our study, we focused on embryonic stem cells (ESCs), because this cell type displays particularly high Cdk1 activity. We found that in ESCs, a large fraction of Cdk1 substrates is localized on chromatin. Cdk1 phosphorylates many proteins involved in epigenetic regulation, including writers and erasers of all major histone marks. Consistent with these findings, inhibition of Cdk1 altered histone-modification status of ESCs. High levels of Cdk1 in ESCs phosphorylate and partially inactivate Dot1l, the H3K79 methyltransferase responsible for placing activating marks on gene bodies. Decrease of Cdk1 activity during ESC differentiation de-represses Dot1l, thereby allowing coordinated expression of differentiation genes. These analyses indicate that Cdk1 functions to maintain the epigenetic identity of ESCs."	1
"30642763"	"The RNA-Binding Protein PUM2 Impairs Mitochondrial Dynamics and Mitophagy During Aging.Little information is available about how post-transcriptional mechanisms regulate the aging process. Here, we show that the RNA-binding protein Pumilio2 (PUM2), which is a translation repressor, is induced upon aging and acts as a negative regulator of lifespan and mitochondrial homeostasis. Multi-omics and cross-species analyses of PUM2 function show that it inhibits the translation of the mRNA encoding for the mitochondrial fission factor (Mff), thereby impairing mitochondrial fission and mitophagy. This mechanism is conserved in C. elegans by the PUM2 ortholog PUF-8. puf-8 knock-down in old nematodes and Pum2 CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout in the muscles of elderly mice enhances mitochondrial fission and mitophagy in both models, hence improving mitochondrial quality control and tissue homeostasis. Our data reveal how a PUM2-mediated layer of post-transcriptional regulation links altered Mff translation to mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy, thereby mediating age-related mitochondrial dysfunctions."	1
