"pmid"	"text"	"hit"
"32424042"	"Lipopolysaccharide O-antigens-bacterial glycans made to measure.Lipopolysaccharides are critical components of bacterial outer membranes. The more conserved lipid A part of the lipopolysaccharide molecule is a major element in the permeability barrier imposed by the outer membrane and offers a pathogen-associated molecular pattern recognized by innate immune systems. In contrast, the long-chain O-antigen polysaccharide (O-PS) shows remarkable structural diversity and fulfills a range of functions, depending on bacterial lifestyles. O-PS production is vital for the success of clinically important Gram-negative pathogens. The biological properties and functions of O-PSs are mostly independent of specific structures, but the size distribution of O-PS chains is particularly important in many contexts. Despite the vast O-PS chemical diversity, most are produced in bacterial cells by two assembly strategies, and the different mechanisms employed in these pathways to regulate chain-length distribution are emerging. Here, we review our current understanding of the mechanisms involved in regulating O-PS chain-length distribution and discuss their impact on microbial cell biology."	0
"32268103"	"Shank2 Binds to aPKC and Controls Tight Junction Formation with Rap1 Signaling during Establishment of Epithelial Cell Polarity.Epithelial cells establish apicobasal polarity by forming tight junctions (TJs) at the apical-lateral boundary, which play fundamental roles in physiological functions. An evolutionarily conserved atypical protein kinase C (aPKC)-partitioning defective (PAR) complex functions as a platform for TJ assembly during cell polarity establishment. However, how this complex converts the spatial cues into a subsequent active unit is unclear. Here, we identify an epithelial isoform of Shank2 as a mediator of the aPKC-PAR complex. Shank2 binds to and colocalizes with aPKC at apical junctional regions of polarized epithelial cells. Shank2 knockdown results in defects in TJ formation. Mechanistically, we find that the N-terminal SPN domain is required for the junctional localization of Shank2 and binds to the active form of Rap1 small GTPase, which is involved in TJ formation. Our findings suggest that a close physical and functional relationship between aPKC and Shank2-active Rap1 signaling serves as the platform for TJ assembly to regulate epithelial cell polarity."	1
"32873579"	"p53 tetramerization: at the center of the dominant-negative effect of mutant p53.The p53 tumor suppressor functions as a tetrameric transcription factor to regulate hundreds of genes-many in a tissue-specific manner. Missense mutations in cancers in the p53 DNA-binding and tetramerization domains cement the importance of these domains in tumor suppression. p53 mutants with a functional tetramerization domain form mixed tetramers, which in some cases have dominant-negative effects (DNE) that inactivate wild-type p53. DNA damage appears necessary but not sufficient for DNE, indicating that upstream signals impact DNE. Posttranslational modifications and protein-protein interactions alter p53 tetramerization affecting transcription, stability, and localization. These regulatory components limit the dominant-negative effects of mutant p53 on wild-type p53 activity. A deeper understanding of the molecular basis for DNE may drive development of drugs that release WT p53 and allow tumor suppression."	0
"31836388"	"Paradoxical Role for Wild-Type p53 in Driving Therapy Resistance in Melanoma.Metastatic melanoma is an aggressive disease, despite recent improvements in therapy. Eradicating all melanoma cells even in drug-sensitive tumors is unsuccessful in patients because a subset of cells can transition to a slow-cycling state, rendering them resistant to most targeted therapy. It is still unclear what pathways define these subpopulations and promote this resistant phenotype. In the current study, we show that Wnt5A, a non-canonical Wnt ligand that drives a metastatic, therapy-resistant phenotype, stabilizes the half-life of p53 and uses p53 to initiate a slow-cycling state following stress (DNA damage, targeted therapy, and aging). Inhibiting p53 blocks the slow-cycling phenotype and sensitizes melanoma cells to BRAF/MEK inhibition. In vivo, this can be accomplished with a single dose of p53 inhibitor at the commencement of BRAF/MEK inhibitor therapy. These data suggest that taking the paradoxical approach of inhibiting rather than activating wild-type p53 may sensitize previously resistant metastatic melanoma cells to therapy."	0
"32268099"	"PGC1α Controls Sucrose Taste Sensitization in Drosophila.Perceived palatability of food controls caloric intake. Sweet taste is the primary means of detecting the carbohydrate content of food. Surprisingly, sweet taste sensitivity is responsive to extrinsic factors like diet, and this occurs by unknown mechanisms. Here, we describe an unbiased proteomic investigation into sweet taste sensitivity in the fruit fly. We identify a dopamine/cyclic AMP (cAMP)/CREB axis acting within sweet taste neurons that controls taste perception but is largely dispensable for acute taste transduction. This pathway modulates sweet taste perception in response to both sensory- and nutrient-restricted diets and converges on PGC1α, a critical regulator of metabolic health and lifespan. By electrophysiology, we found that enhanced sucrose taste sensitivity was the result of heightened sweet taste intensity and that PGC1α was both necessary and sufficient for this effect. Together, we provide the first molecular insight into how diet-induced taste perception is regulated within the sweet taste neuron."	0
"32023458"	"Methylglyoxal Scavengers Resensitize KRAS-Mutated Colorectal Tumors to Cetuximab.The use of cetuximab anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (anti-EGFR) antibodies has opened the era of targeted and personalized therapy in colorectal cancer (CRC). Poor response rates have been unequivocally shown in mutant KRAS and are even observed in a majority of wild-type KRAS tumors. Therefore, patient selection based on mutational profiling remains problematic. We previously identified methylglyoxal (MGO), a by-product of glycolysis, as a metabolite promoting tumor growth and metastasis. Mutant KRAS cells under MGO stress show AKT-dependent survival when compared with wild-type KRAS isogenic CRC cells. MGO induces AKT activation through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/mammalian target of rapamycin 2 (mTORC2) and Hsp27 regulation. Importantly, the sole induction of MGO stress in sensitive wild-type KRAS cells renders them resistant to cetuximab. MGO scavengers inhibit AKT and resensitize KRAS-mutated CRC cells to cetuximab in vivo. This study establishes a link between MGO and AKT activation and pinpoints this oncometabolite as a potential target to tackle EGFR-targeted therapy resistance in CRC."	0
"32130902"	"Innate Lymphoid Cells Play a Pathogenic Role in Pericarditis.We find that cardiac group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) are essential for the development of IL-33-induced eosinophilic pericarditis. We show a pathogenic role for ILC2s in cardiac inflammation, in which ILC2s activated by IL-33 drive the development of eosinophilic pericarditis in collaboration with cardiac fibroblasts. ILCs, not T and B cells, are required for the development of pericarditis. ILC2s transferred to the heart of Rag2<sup>-/-</sup>Il2rg<sup>-/-</sup> mice restore their susceptibility to eosinophil infiltration. Moreover, ILC2s direct cardiac fibroblasts to produce eotaxin-1. We also find that eosinophils reside in the mediastinal cavity and that eosinophils transferred to the mediastinal cavity of eosinophil-deficient ΔdblGATA1 mice following IL-33 treatment migrate to the heart. Thus, the serous cavities may serve as a reservoir of cardiac-infiltrating eosinophils. In humans, patients with pericarditis show higher amounts of ILCs in pericardial fluid than do healthy controls and patients with other cardiac diseases. We demonstrate that ILCs play a critical role in pericarditis."	0
"32783943"	"Acetylation Stabilizes Phosphoglycerate Dehydrogenase by Disrupting the Interaction of E3 Ligase RNF5 to Promote Breast Tumorigenesis.Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) is the first enzyme in the serine synthesis pathway in which it is also the rate-limiting enzyme. It is significantly upregulated in many cancers, especially breast cancer. However, the posttranslational mechanism of PHGDH upregulation in breast cancer is unknown. In this study, we find that RNF5, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is essential for the degradation of PHGDH protein. PHGDH is degraded by RNF5 to prevent the proliferation of breast cancer cells. The acetylation of PHGDH at K58 is able to disrupt the interaction of RNF5-PHGDH and promote the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Tip60 and SIRT2 regulate the reversible acetylation modification of PHGDH in response to glucose alteration. Moreover, PHGDH is significantly upregulated in samples of human breast cancer and is associated with decreased RNF5 expression. This implies a potential therapeutic target through the interference interaction of PHGDH-RNF5 to degrade PHGDH in breast cancer."	1
"31585693"	"A Diversity of Selective Autophagy Receptors Determines the Specificity of the Autophagy Pathway.The clearance of surplus, broken, or dangerous components is key for maintaining cellular homeostasis. The failure to remove protein aggregates, damaged organelles, or intracellular pathogens leads to diseases, including neurodegeneration, cancer, and infectious diseases. Autophagy is the evolutionarily conserved pathway that sequesters cytoplasmic components in specialized vesicles, autophagosomes, which transport the cargo to the degradative compartments (vacuoles or lysosomes). Research during the past few decades has elucidated how autophagosomes engulf their substrates selectively. This type of autophagy involves a growing number of selective autophagy receptors (SARs) (e.g., Atg19 in yeasts, p62/SQSTM1 in mammals), which bind to the cargo and simultaneously engage components of the core autophagic machinery via direct interaction with the ubiquitin-like proteins (UBLs) of the Atg8/LC3/GABARAP family and adaptors, Atg11 (in yeasts) or FIP200 (in mammals). In this Review, we critically discuss the biology of the SARs with special emphasis on their interactions with UBLs."	0
"32763224"	"Unwinding the Role of FACT in Cas9-based Genome Editing.In a recent issue of Molecular Cell, Wang et al. (2020) employ unbiased proteomics approaches and live-cell imaging to reveal a key role for the histone chaperone complex FACT (SPT16 and SSRP1) in governing Cas9 turnover at the DNA target site during genome and epigenome editing."	0
"31733992"	"An mTORC1-to-CDK1 Switch Maintains Autophagy Suppression during Mitosis.Since nuclear envelope breakdown occurs during mitosis in metazoan cells, it has been proposed that macroautophagy must be inhibited to maintain genome integrity. However, repression of macroautophagy during mitosis remains controversial and mechanistic detail limited to the suggestion that CDK1 phosphorylates VPS34. Here, we show that initiation of macroautophagy, measured by the translocation of the ULK complex to autophagic puncta, is repressed during mitosis, even when mTORC1 is inhibited. Indeed, mTORC1 is inactive during mitosis, reflecting its failure to localize to lysosomes due to CDK1-dependent RAPTOR phosphorylation. While mTORC1 normally represses autophagy via phosphorylation of ULK1, ATG13, ATG14, and TFEB, we show that the mitotic phosphorylation of these autophagy regulators, including at known repressive sites, is dependent on CDK1 but independent of mTOR. Thus, CDK1 substitutes for inhibited mTORC1 as the master regulator of macroautophagy during mitosis, uncoupling autophagy regulation from nutrient status to ensure repression of macroautophagy during mitosis."	1
"32369734"	"Cryo-EM Structure of the Fork Protection Complex Bound to CMG at a Replication Fork.The eukaryotic replisome, organized around the Cdc45-MCM-GINS (CMG) helicase, orchestrates chromosome replication. Multiple factors associate directly with CMG, including Ctf4 and the heterotrimeric fork protection complex (Csm3/Tof1 and Mrc1), which has important roles including aiding normal replication rates and stabilizing stalled forks. How these proteins interface with CMG to execute these functions is poorly understood. Here we present 3 to 3.5 Å resolution electron cryomicroscopy (cryo-EM) structures comprising CMG, Ctf4, and the fork protection complex at a replication fork. The structures provide high-resolution views of CMG-DNA interactions, revealing a mechanism for strand separation, and show Csm3/Tof1 ""grip"" duplex DNA ahead of CMG via a network of interactions important for efficient replication fork pausing. Although Mrc1 was not resolved in our structures, we determine its topology in the replisome by cross-linking mass spectrometry. Collectively, our work reveals how four highly conserved replisome components collaborate with CMG to facilitate replisome progression and maintain genome stability."	0
"30554947"	"Molecular Basis for the Single-Nucleotide Precision of Primary microRNA Processing.Microprocessor, composed of DROSHA and its cofactor DGCR8, initiates microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis by processing the primary transcripts of miRNA (pri-miRNAs). Here we investigate the mechanism by which Microprocessor selects the cleavage site with single-nucleotide precision, which is crucial for the specificity and functionality of miRNAs. By testing ∼40,000 pri-miRNA variants, we find that for some pri-miRNAs the cleavage site is dictated mainly by the mGHG motif embedded in the lower stem region of pri-miRNA. Structural modeling and deep-sequencing-based complementation experiments show that the double-stranded RNA-binding domain (dsRBD) of DROSHA recognizes mGHG to place the catalytic center in the appropriate position. The mGHG motif as well as the mGHG-recognizing residues in DROSHA dsRBD are conserved across eumetazoans, suggesting that this mechanism emerged in an early ancestor of the animal lineage. Our findings provide a basis for the understanding of miRNA biogenesis and rational design of accurate small-RNA-based gene silencing."	0
"32075731"	"Small Molecule Inhibition of GSK-3 Specifically Inhibits the Transcription of Inhibitory Co-receptor LAG-3 for Enhanced Anti-tumor Immunity.Immune checkpoint blockade using antibodies against negative co-receptors such as cytolytic T cell antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) has seen much success treating cancer. However, most patients are still not cured, underscoring the need for improved treatments and the possible development of small molecule inhibitors (SMIs) for improved immunotherapy. We previously showed that glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3α/β is a central regulator of PD-1 expression, where GSK-3 inhibition down-regulates PD-1 and enhances CD8<sup>+</sup> cytolytic T cell (CTL) function, reducing viral infections and tumor growth. Here, we demonstrate that GSK-3 also negatively regulates Lymphocyte Activation Gene-3 (LAG-3) expression on CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells. GSK-3 SMIs are more effective than LAG-3 blockade alone in suppressing B16 melanoma growth, while their combination resulted in enhanced tumor clearance. This was linked to increased expression of the transcription factor, Tbet, which bound the LAG-3 promoter, inhibiting its transcription, and to increased granzyme B and interferon-γ1 expression. Overall, we describe a small molecule approach to inhibit LAG-3, resulting in enhanced anti-tumor immunity."	1
"32610126"	"Counter Regulation of Spic by NF-κB and STAT Signaling Controls Inflammation and Iron Metabolism in Macrophages.Activated macrophages must carefully calibrate their inflammatory responses to balance efficient pathogen control with inflammation-mediated tissue damage, but the molecular underpinnings of this ""balancing act"" remain unclear. Using genetically engineered mouse models and primary macrophage cultures, we show that Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling induces the expression of the transcription factor Spic selectively in patrolling monocytes and tissue macrophages by a nuclear factor κB (NF-κB)-dependent mechanism. Functionally, Spic downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines and promotes iron efflux by regulating ferroportin expression in activated macrophages. Notably, interferon-gamma blocks Spic expression in a STAT1-dependent manner. High levels of interferon-gamma are indicative of ongoing infection, and in its absence, activated macrophages appear to engage a ""default"" Spic-dependent anti-inflammatory pathway. We also provide evidence for the engagement of this pathway in sterile inflammation. Taken together, our findings uncover a pathway wherein counter-regulation of Spic by NF-κB and STATs attune inflammatory responses and iron metabolism in macrophages."	1
"32579916"	"CD8<sup>+</sup> T Cell Functional Exhaustion Overrides Pregnancy-Induced Fetal Antigen Alloimmunization.Pregnancy necessitates physiological exposure, and often re-exposure, to foreign fetal alloantigens. The consequences after pregnancy are highly varied, with evidence of both alloimmunization and expanded tolerance phenotypes. We show that pregnancy primes the accumulation of fetal-specific maternal CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and their persistence as an activated memory pool after parturition. Cytolysis and the potential for robust secondary expansion occurs with antigen re-encounter in non-reproductive contexts. Comparatively, CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell functional exhaustion associated with increased PD-1 and LAG-3 expression occurs with fetal antigen re-stimulation during subsequent pregnancy. PD-L1/LAG-3 neutralization unleashes the activation of fetal-specific CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, causing fetal wastage selectively during secondary but not primary pregnancy. Thus, CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells with fetal alloantigen specificity persist in mothers after pregnancy, and protection against fetal wastage in subsequent pregnancies is maintained by their unique susceptibility to functional exhaustion. Together, distinct mechanisms whereby fetal tolerance is maintained during primary compared with subsequent pregnancies are demonstrated."	0
"30598363"	"RIPK1 and Caspase-8 Ensure Chromosome Stability Independently of Their Role in Cell Death and Inflammation.Receptor-interacting protein kinase (RIPK) 1 functions as a key mediator of tissue homeostasis via formation of Caspase-8 activating ripoptosome complexes, positively and negatively regulating apoptosis, necroptosis, and inflammation. Here, we report an unanticipated cell-death- and inflammation-independent function of RIPK1 and Caspase-8, promoting faithful chromosome alignment in mitosis and thereby ensuring genome stability. We find that ripoptosome complexes progressively form as cells enter mitosis, peaking at metaphase and disassembling as cells exit mitosis. Genetic deletion and mitosis-specific inhibition of Ripk1 or Caspase-8 results in chromosome alignment defects independently of MLKL. We found that Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) is recruited into mitotic ripoptosomes, where PLK1's activity is controlled via RIPK1-dependent recruitment and Caspase-8-mediated cleavage. A fine balance of ripoptosome assembly is required as deregulated ripoptosome activity modulates PLK1-dependent phosphorylation of downstream effectors, such as BUBR1. Our data suggest that ripoptosome-mediated regulation of PLK1 contributes to faithful chromosome segregation during mitosis."	1
"32877683"	"An Epilepsy-Associated GRIN2A Rare Variant Disrupts CaMKIIα Phosphorylation of GluN2A and NMDA Receptor Trafficking.Rare variants in GRIN genes, which encode NMDAR subunits, are strongly associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Among these, GRIN2A, which encodes the GluN2A subunit of NMDARs, is widely accepted as an epilepsy-causative gene. Here, we functionally characterize the de novo GluN2A-S1459G mutation identified in an epilepsy patient. We show that S1459 is a CaMKIIα phosphorylation site, and that endogenous phosphorylation is regulated during development and in response to synaptic activity in a dark rearing model. GluN2A-S1459 phosphorylation results in preferential binding of NMDARs to SNX27 and a corresponding decrease in PSD-95 binding, which consequently regulates NMDAR trafficking. Furthermore, the epilepsy-associated GluN2A-S1459G variant displays defects in interactions with both SNX27 and PSD-95, resulting in trafficking deficits, reduced spine density, and decreased excitatory synaptic transmission. These data demonstrate a role for CaMKIIα phosphorylation of GluN2A in receptor targeting and implicate NMDAR trafficking defects as a link to epilepsy."	1
"32698010"	"mTORC1 Signaling Controls TLR2-Mediated T-Cell Activation by Inducing TIRAP Expression.Effector, but not naïve, T cells are activated by toll-like receptor-2 (TLR2) stimulation, leading to cytokine production and proliferation. We found that the differential response is attributable to the lack of expression of the adaptor protein TIRAP in naive T cells. TIRAP expression is induced upon T-cell receptor (TCR) stimulation and sustained by strong interleukin-2 (IL-2) signals. Expression of TIRAP requires TCR- and IL-2-induced mTORC1 activation. TLR2 stimulation induced the activation of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and ERK, leading to much higher production of interferon-γ (IFN-γ) by T helper 1 (Th1) cells cultured in a high concentration of IL-2 than by those cultured in a low concentration of IL-2. In contrast, TLR2 stimulation induces mTORC1 activation through TIRAP, which is essential for TLR2-mediated IFN-γ production. These data demonstrate that the mTORC1 signal confers the response to TLR2 signaling by inducing TIRAP expression and that the TIRAP-mTORC1 axis is critical for TLR2-mediated IFN-γ production by effector T cells."	1
"30595434"	"Noncanonical Modulation of the eIF2 Pathway Controls an Increase in Local Translation during Neural Wiring.Local translation is rapidly regulated by extrinsic signals during neural wiring, but its control mechanisms remain elusive. Here we show that the extracellular cue Sema3A induces an initial burst in local translation that precisely controls phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2α via the unfolded protein response (UPR) kinase PERK. Strikingly, in contrast to canonical UPR signaling, Sema3A-induced eIF2α phosphorylation bypasses global translational repression and underlies an increase in local translation through differential activity of eIF2B mediated by protein phosphatase 1. Ultrasensitive proteomics analysis of axons reveals 75 proteins translationally controlled via the Sema3A-p-eIF2α pathway. These include proteostasis- and actin cytoskeleton-related proteins but not canonical stress markers. Finally, we show that PERK signaling is needed for directional axon migration and visual pathway development in vivo. Thus, our findings reveal a noncanonical eIF2 signaling pathway that controls selective changes in axon translation and is required for neural wiring."	1
"32553165"	"Identification of a G-Protein-Independent Activator of GIRK Channels.G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying K<sup>+</sup> (GIRK) channels are essential effectors of inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain. GIRK channels have been implicated in diseases with abnormal neuronal excitability, including epilepsy and addiction. GIRK channels are tetramers composed of either the same subunit (e.g., homotetramers) or different subunits (e.g., heterotetramers). Compounds that specifically target subsets of GIRK channels in vivo are lacking. Previous studies have shown that alcohol directly activates GIRK channels through a hydrophobic pocket located in the cytoplasmic domain of the channel. Here, we report the identification and functional characterization of a GIRK1-selective activator, termed GiGA1, that targets the alcohol pocket. GiGA1 activates GIRK1/GIRK2 both in vitro and in vivo and, in turn, mitigates the effects of a convulsant in an acute epilepsy mouse model. These results shed light on the structure-based development of subunit-specific GIRK modulators that could provide potential treatments for brain disorders."	0
"32402252"	"KAP1 Is a Chromatin Reader that Couples Steps of RNA Polymerase II Transcription to Sustain Oncogenic Programs.Precise control of the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) cycle, including pausing and pause release, maintains transcriptional homeostasis and organismal functions. Despite previous work to understand individual transcription steps, we reveal a mechanism that integrates RNA Pol II cycle transitions. Surprisingly, KAP1/TRIM28 uses a previously uncharacterized chromatin reader cassette to bind hypo-acetylated histone 4 tails at promoters, guaranteeing continuous progression of RNA Pol II entry to and exit from the pause state. Upon chromatin docking, KAP1 first associates with RNA Pol II and then recruits a pathway-specific transcription factor (SMAD2) in response to cognate ligands, enabling gene-selective CDK9-dependent pause release. This coupling mechanism is exploited by tumor cells to aberrantly sustain transcriptional programs commonly dysregulated in cancer patients. The discovery of a factor integrating transcription steps expands the functional repertoire by which chromatin readers operate and provides mechanistic understanding of transcription regulation, offering alternative therapeutic opportunities to target transcriptional dysregulation."	1
"32763910"	"miR760 regulates ATXN1 levels via interaction with its 5' untranslated region.Identifying modifiers of dosage-sensitive genes involved in neurodegenerative disorders is imperative to discover novel genetic risk factors and potential therapeutic entry points. In this study, we focus on Ataxin-1 (<i>ATXN1</i>), a dosage-sensitive gene involved in the neurodegenerative disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). While the precise maintenance of ATXN1 levels is essential to prevent disease, the mechanisms that regulate <i>ATXN1</i> expression remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that <i>ATXN1</i>'s unusually long 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) negatively regulates its expression via posttranscriptional mechanisms. Based on recent reports that microRNAs (miRNAs) can interact with both 3' and 5' UTRs to regulate their target genes, we identify miR760 as a negative regulator that binds to a conserved site in <i>ATXN1</i>'s 5' UTR to induce RNA degradation and translational inhibition. We found that delivery of Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-expressing miR760 in the cerebellum reduces ATXN1 levels in vivo and mitigates motor coordination deficits in a mouse model of SCA1. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of ATXN1 levels, present additional evidence for miRNA-mediated gene regulation via 5' UTR binding, and raise the possibility that noncoding mutations in the <i>ATXN1</i> locus may act as risk factors for yet to be discovered progressive ataxias."	1
"32645369"	"RNF126-Mediated Reubiquitination Is Required for Proteasomal Degradation of p97-Extracted Membrane Proteins.Valosin-containing protein (VCP)/p97 is an AAA-ATPase that extracts polyubiquitinated substrates from multimeric macromolecular complexes and biological membranes for proteasomal degradation. During p97-mediated extraction, the substrate is largely deubiquitinated as it is threaded through the p97 central pore. How p97-extracted substrates are targeted to the proteasome with few or no ubiquitins is unknown. Here, we report that p97-extracted membrane proteins undergo a second round of ubiquitination catalyzed by the cytosolic ubiquitin ligase RNF126. RNF126 interacts with transmembrane-domain-specific chaperone BAG6, which captures p97-liberated substrates. RNF126 depletion in cells diminishes the ubiquitination of extracted membrane proteins, slows down their turnover, and dramatically stabilizes otherwise transient intermediates in the cytosol. We reconstitute the reubiquitination of a p97-extracted, misfolded multispanning membrane protein with purified factors. Our results demonstrate that p97-extracted substrates need to rapidly engage ubiquitin ligase-chaperone pairs that rebuild the ubiquitin signal for proteasome targeting to prevent harmful accumulation of unfolded intermediates."	1
"31708417"	"ATR Protects the Genome against R Loops through a MUS81-Triggered Feedback Loop.R loops arising during transcription induce genomic instability, but how cells respond to the R loop-associated genomic stress is still poorly understood. Here, we show that cells harboring high levels of R loops rely on the ATR kinase for survival. In response to aberrant R loop accumulation, the ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR)-Chk1 pathway is activated by R loop-induced reversed replication forks. In contrast to the activation of ATR by replication inhibitors, R loop-induced ATR activation requires the MUS81 endonuclease. ATR protects the genome from R loops by suppressing transcription-replication collisions, promoting replication fork recovery, and enforcing a G2/M cell-cycle arrest. Furthermore, ATR prevents excessive cleavage of reversed forks by MUS81, revealing a MUS81-triggered and ATR-mediated feedback loop that fine-tunes MUS81 activity at replication forks. These results suggest that ATR is a key sensor and suppressor of R loop-induced genomic instability, uncovering a signaling circuitry that safeguards the genome against R loops."	1
"32367046"	"In vitro capture and characterization of embryonic rosette-stage pluripotency between naive and primed states.Following implantation, the naive pluripotent epiblast of the mouse blastocyst generates a rosette, undergoes lumenogenesis and forms the primed pluripotent egg cylinder, which is able to generate the embryonic tissues. How pluripotency progression and morphogenesis are linked and whether intermediate pluripotent states exist remain controversial. We identify here a rosette pluripotent state defined by the co-expression of naive factors with the transcription factor OTX2. Downregulation of blastocyst WNT signals drives the transition into rosette pluripotency by inducing OTX2. The rosette then activates MEK signals that induce lumenogenesis and drive progression to primed pluripotency. Consequently, combined WNT and MEK inhibition supports rosette-like stem cells, a self-renewing naive-primed intermediate. Rosette-like stem cells erase constitutive heterochromatin marks and display a primed chromatin landscape, with bivalently marked primed pluripotency genes. Nonetheless, WNT induces reversion to naive pluripotency. The rosette is therefore a reversible pluripotent intermediate whereby control over both pluripotency progression and morphogenesis pivots from WNT to MEK signals."	0
"32636303"	"Interleukin-6-mediated epigenetic control of the VEGFR2 gene induces disorganized angiogenesis in human breast tumors.Disorganized vessels in the tumor vasculature lead to impaired perfusion, resulting in reduced accessibility to immune cells and chemotherapeutic drugs. In the breast tumor-stroma interplay, paracrine factors such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) often facilitate disordered angiogenesis. We show here that epigenetic mechanisms regulate the crosstalk between IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) signaling pathways in myoepithelial (CD10<sup>+</sup>) and endothelial (CD31<sup>+</sup>, CD105<sup>+</sup>, CD146<sup>+</sup>, and CD133<sup>-</sup>) cells isolated from malignant and nonmalignant tissues of clinically characterized human breast tumors. Tumor endothelial (Endo-T) cells in 3D cultures exhibited higher VEGFR2 expression levels, accelerated migration, invasion, and disorganized sprout formation in response to elevated IL-6 levels secreted by tumor myoepithelial (Epi-T) cells. Constitutively, compared with normal endothelial (Endo-N) cells, Endo-T cells differentially expressed DNA methyltransferase isoforms and had increased levels of IL-6 signaling intermediates such as IL-6R and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Upon IL-6 treatment, Endo-N and Endo-T cells displayed altered expression of the DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) isoform. Mechanistic studies revealed that IL-6 induced proteasomal degradation of DNMT1, but not of DNMT3A and DNMT3B and subsequently led to promoter hypomethylation and expression/activation of <i>VEGFR2.</i> IL-6-induced VEGFR2 up-regulation was inhibited by overexpression of DNMT1. Transfection of a dominant-negative STAT3 mutant, but not of STAT1, abrogated VEGFR2 expression. Our results indicate that in the breast tumor microenvironment, IL-6 secreted from myoepithelial cells influences DNMT1 stability, induces the expression of VEGFR2 in endothelial cells via a promoter methylation-dependent mechanism, and leads to disordered angiogenesis."	1
"32268090"	"TBK1 and IKKε Act Redundantly to Mediate STING-Induced NF-κB Responses in Myeloid Cells.Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) is a critical component of host innate immune defense but can contribute to chronic autoimmune or autoinflammatory disease. Once activated, the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-adenosine monophosphate (AMP) (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS)-STING pathway induces both type I interferon (IFN) expression and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-mediated cytokine production. Currently, these two signaling arms are thought to be mediated by a single upstream kinase, TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). Here, using genetic and pharmacological approaches, we show that TBK1 alone is dispensable for STING-induced NF-κB responses in human and mouse immune cells, as well as in vivo. We further demonstrate that TBK1 acts redundantly with IκB kinase ε (IKKε) to drive NF-κB upon STING activation. Interestingly, we show that activation of IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) is highly dependent on TBK1 kinase activity, whereas NF-κB is significantly less sensitive to TBK1/IKKε kinase inhibition. Our work redefines signaling events downstream of cGAS-STING. Our findings further suggest that cGAS-STING will need to be targeted directly to effectively ameliorate the inflammation underpinning disorders associated with STING hyperactivity."	1
"32101747"	"Class IIa Histone Deacetylases Drive Toll-like Receptor-Inducible Glycolysis and Macrophage Inflammatory Responses via Pyruvate Kinase M2.Histone deacetylases (HDACs) drive innate immune cell-mediated inflammation. Here we identify class IIa HDACs as key molecular links between Toll-like receptor (TLR)-inducible aerobic glycolysis and macrophage inflammatory responses. A proteomic screen identified the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M isoform 2 (Pkm2) as a partner of proinflammatory Hdac7 in murine macrophages. Myeloid-specific Hdac7 overexpression in transgenic mice amplifies lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-inducible lactate and promotes a glycolysis-associated inflammatory signature. Conversely, pharmacological or genetic targeting of Hdac7 and other class IIa HDACs attenuates LPS-inducible glycolysis and accompanying inflammatory responses in macrophages. We show that an Hdac7-Pkm2 complex acts as an immunometabolism signaling hub, whereby Pkm2 deacetylation at lysine 433 licenses its proinflammatory functions. Disrupting this complex suppresses inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Class IIa HDACs are thus pivotal intermediates connecting TLR-inducible glycolysis to inflammation via Pkm2."	1
"32675284"	"Caspr2 interacts with type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the developing cerebellum and regulates Purkinje cell morphology.Contactin-associated protein-like 2 (Caspr2) is a neurexin-like protein that has been associated with numerous neurological conditions. However, the specific functional roles that Caspr2 plays in the central nervous system and their underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we report on a functional role for Caspr2 in the developing cerebellum. Using a combination of confocal microscopy, biochemical analyses, and behavioral testing, we show that loss of Caspr2 in the <i>Cntnap2</i><sup>-/-</sup> knockout mouse results in impaired Purkinje cell dendritic development, altered intracellular signaling, and motor coordination deficits. We also find that Caspr2 is highly enriched at synaptic specializations in the cerebellum. Using a proteomics approach, we identify type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP<sub>3</sub>R1) as a specific synaptic interaction partner of the Caspr2 extracellular domain in the molecular layer of the developing cerebellum. The interaction of the Caspr2 extracellular domain with IP<sub>3</sub>R1 inhibits IP<sub>3</sub>R1-mediated changes in cellular morphology. Together, our work defines a mechanism by which Caspr2 controls the development and function of the cerebellum and advances our understanding of how Caspr2 dysfunction might lead to specific brain disorders."	1
"32460023"	"Prophase-Specific Perinuclear Actin Coordinates Centrosome Separation and Positioning to Ensure Accurate Chromosome Segregation.Centrosome separation in late G2/ early prophase requires precise spatial coordination that is determined by a balance of forces promoting and antagonizing separation. The major effector of centrosome separation is the kinesin Eg5. However, the identity and regulation of Eg5-antagonizing forces is less well characterized. By manipulating candidate components, we find that centrosome separation is reversible and that separated centrosomes congress toward a central position underneath the flat nucleus. This positioning mechanism requires microtubule polymerization, as well as actin polymerization. We identify perinuclear actin structures that form in late G2/early prophase and interact with microtubules emanating from the centrosomes. Disrupting these structures by breaking the interactions of the linker of nucleoskeleton and cytoskeleton (LINC) complex with perinuclear actin filaments abrogates this centrosome positioning mechanism and causes an increase in subsequent chromosome segregation errors. Our results demonstrate how geometrical cues from the cell nucleus coordinate the orientation of the emanating spindle poles before nuclear envelope breakdown."	0
"32460032"	"CXCR4 Signaling Has a CXCL12-Independent Essential Role in Murine MLL-AF9-Driven Acute Myeloid Leukemia.Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is defined by an accumulation of immature myeloid blasts in the bone marrow. To identify key dependencies of AML stem cells in vivo, here we use a CRISPR-Cas9 screen targeting cell surface genes in a syngeneic MLL-AF9 AML mouse model and show that CXCR4 is a top cell surface regulator of AML cell growth and survival. Deletion of Cxcr4 in AML cells eradicates leukemia cells in vivo without impairing their homing to the bone marrow. In contrast, the CXCR4 ligand CXCL12 is dispensable for leukemia development in recipient mice. Moreover, expression of mutated Cxcr4 variants reveals that CXCR4 signaling is essential for leukemia cells. Notably, loss of CXCR4 signaling in leukemia cells leads to oxidative stress and differentiation in vivo. Taken together, our results identify CXCR4 signaling as essential for AML stem cells by protecting them from differentiation independent of CXCL12 stimulation."	0
"32502419"	"Senescence of Timing Reverted: NAD<sup>+</sup> Rejuvenates the Circadian Clock.The amplitude of circadian rhythms dampens with age, but Levine et al. (2020) now show that nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) can restore robust circadian gene expression and behavior in aged mice through SIRT1-dependent deacetylation of the core clock protein PER2."	0
"32101749"	"Tumor-Derived Lactic Acid Contributes to the Paucity of Intratumoral ILC2s.Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) are abundant in non-lymphoid tissues and increase following infectious and inflammatory insults. In solid tumors, however, ILC2s constitute a relatively small proportion of immune cells. Here, we show, using melanoma as a model, that while the IL-33/IL C2/eosinophil axis suppresses tumor growth, tumor-derived lactate attenuates the function and survival of ILC2s. Melanomas with reduced lactate production (LDHA<sup>low</sup>) are growth delayed and typified by an increased number of ILC2s compared with control tumors. Upon IL-33 stimulation, ILC2s accompanied by eosinophils more effectively restrain the growth of LDHA<sup>low</sup> tumors than control melanomas. Furthermore, database analysis reveals a negative correlation between the expression of LDHA and markers associated with ILC2s and the association of high expression of IL33 and an eosinophil marker SIGLEC8 with better overall survival in human cutaneous melanoma patients. This work demonstrates that the balance between the IL-33/ILC2/eosinophil axis and lactate production by tumor cells regulates melanoma growth."	0
"32679077"	"Acetylation-Dependent Deubiquitinase OTUD3 Controls MAVS Activation in Innate Antiviral Immunity.Accurate regulation of innate immunity is necessary for the host to efficiently respond to invading pathogens and avoid excessive harmful immune pathology. Here we identified OTUD3 as an acetylation-dependent deubiquitinase that restricts innate antiviral immune signaling. OTUD3 deficiency in mice results in enhanced innate immunity, a diminished viral load, and morbidity. OTUD3 directly hydrolyzes lysine 63 (Lys63)-linked polyubiquitination of MAVS and thus shuts off innate antiviral immune response. Notably, the catalytic activity of OTUD3 relies on acetylation of its Lys129 residue. In response to virus infection, the acetylated Lys129 is removed by SIRT1, which promptly inactivates OTUD3 and thus allows timely induction of innate antiviral immunity. Importantly, acetyl-OTUD3 levels are inversely correlated with IFN-β expression in influenza patients. These findings establish OTUD3 as a repressor of MAVS and uncover a previously unknown regulatory mechanism by which the catalytic activity of OTUD3 is tightly controlled to ensure timely activation of antiviral defense."	1
"32513871"	"CRISPR type II-A subgroups exhibit phylogenetically distinct mechanisms for prespacer insertion.CRISPR-Cas is an adaptive immune system that protects prokaryotes against foreign nucleic acids. Prokaryotes gain immunity by acquiring short pieces of the invading nucleic acid termed prespacers and inserting them into their CRISPR array. In type II-A systems, Cas1 and Cas2 proteins insert prespacers always at the leader-repeat junction of the CRISPR array. Among type II-A CRISPR systems, three distinct groups (G1, G2, and G3) exist according to the extent of DNA sequence conservation at the 3' end of the leader. However, the mechanisms by which these conserved motifs interact with their cognate Cas1 and Cas2 proteins remain unclear. Here, we performed <i>in vitro</i> integration assays, finding that for G1 and G2, the insertion site is recognized through defined mechanisms, at least in members examined to date, whereas G3 exhibits no sequence-specific insertion. G1 first recognized a 12-bp sequence at the leader-repeat junction and performed leader-side insertion before proceeding to spacer-side insertion. G2 recognized the full repeat sequence and could perform independent leader-side or spacer-side insertions, although the leader-side insertion was faster than spacer-side. The prespacer morphology requirements for Cas1-Cas2 varied, with G1 stringently requiring a 5-nucleotide 3' overhang and G2 being able to insert many forms of prespacers with variable efficiencies. These results highlight the intricacy of protein-DNA sequence interactions within the seemingly similar type II-A integration complexes and provide mechanistic insights into prespacer insertion. These interactions can be fine-tuned to expand the Cas1-Cas2 toolset for inserting small DNAs into diverse DNA targets."	0
"32579940"	"CD28 Regulates Metabolic Fitness for Long-Lived Plasma Cell Survival.Durable humoral immunity against epidemic infectious disease requires the survival of long-lived plasma cells (LLPCs). LLPC longevity is dependent on metabolic programs distinct from short-lived plasma cells (SLPCs); however, the mechanistic basis for this difference is unclear. We have previously shown that CD28, the prototypic T cell costimulatory receptor, is expressed on both LLPCs and SLPCs but is essential only for LLPC survival. Here we show that CD28 transduces pro-survival signaling specifically in LLPCs through differential SLP76 expression. CD28 signaling in LLPCs increased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass/respiration, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Unexpectedly, CD28-mediated regulation of mitochondrial respiration, NF-κB activation, and survival was ROS dependent. IRF4, a target of NF-κB, was upregulated by CD28 activation in LLPCs and decreased IRF4 levels correlated with decreased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass, ROS, and CD28-mediated survival. Altogether, these data demonstrate that CD28 signaling induces a ROS-dependent metabolic program required for LLPC survival."	1
"31054974"	"Acetylation of PHF5A Modulates Stress Responses and Colorectal Carcinogenesis through Alternative Splicing-Mediated Upregulation of KDM3A.Alternative pre-mRNA-splicing-induced post-transcriptional gene expression regulation is one of the pathways for tumors maintaining proliferation rates accompanying the malignant phenotype under stress. Here, we uncover a list of hyperacetylated proteins in the context of acutely reduced Acetyl-CoA levels under nutrient starvation. PHF5A, a component of U2 snRNPs, can be acetylated at lysine 29 in response to multiple cellular stresses, which is dependent on p300. PHF5A acetylation strengthens the interaction among U2 snRNPs and affects global pre-mRNA splicing pattern and extensive gene expression. PHF5A hyperacetylation-induced alternative splicing stabilizes KDM3A mRNA and promotes its protein expression. Pathologically, PHF5A K29 hyperacetylation and KDM3A upregulation axis are correlated with poor prognosis of colon cancer. Our findings uncover a mechanism of an anti-stress pathway through which acetylation on PHF5A promotes the cancer cells' capacity for stress resistance and consequently contributes to colon carcinogenesis."	1
"32294442"	"A Localized Scaffold for cGMP Increase Is Required for Apical Dendrite Development.Studies in cultured neurons have established that axon specification instructs neuronal polarization and is necessary for dendrite development. However, dendrite formation in vivo occurs when axon formation is prevented. The mechanisms promoting dendrite development remain elusive. We find that apical dendrite development is directed by a localized cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-synthesizing complex. We show that the scaffolding protein Scribble associates with cGMP-synthesizing enzymes soluble-guanylate-cyclase (sGC) and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). The Scribble scaffold is preferentially localized to and mediates cGMP increase in dendrites. These events are regulated by kinesin KifC2. Knockdown of Scribble, sGC-β1, or KifC2 or disrupting their associations prevents cGMP increase in dendrites and causes severe defects in apical dendrite development. Local cGMP elevation or sGC expression rescues the effects of Scribble knockdown on dendrite development, indicating that Scribble is an upstream regulator of cGMP. During neuronal polarization, dendrite development is directed by the Scribble scaffold that might link extracellular cues to localized cGMP increase."	0
"32937135"	"The GSK-3β-FBXL21 Axis Contributes to Circadian TCAP Degradation and Skeletal Muscle Function.FBXL21 is a clock-controlled E3 ligase modulating circadian periodicity via subcellular-specific CRYPTOCHROME degradation. How FBXL21 regulates tissue-specific circadian physiology and what mechanism operates upstream is poorly understood. Here we report the sarcomere component TCAP as a cytoplasmic substrate of FBXL21. FBXL21 interacts with TCAP in a circadian manner antiphasic to TCAP accumulation in skeletal muscle, and circadian TCAP oscillation is disrupted in Psttm mice with an Fbxl21 hypomorph mutation. GSK-3β phosphorylates FBXL21 and TCAP to activate FBXL21-mediated, phosphodegron-dependent TCAP degradation. GSK-3β inhibition or knockdown diminishes FBXL21-Cul1 complex formation and delays FBXL21-mediated TCAP degradation. Finally, Psttm mice show significant skeletal muscle defects, including impaired fiber size, exercise tolerance, grip strength, and response to glucocorticoid-induced atrophy, in conjunction with cardiac dysfunction. These data highlight a circadian regulatory pathway where a GSK-3β-FBXL21 functional axis controls TCAP degradation via SCF complex formation and regulates skeletal muscle function."	1
"32640240"	"Adipocyte Fatty Acid Transfer Supports Megakaryocyte Maturation.Megakaryocytes (MKs) come from a complex process of hematopoietic progenitor maturation within the bone marrow that gives rise to de novo circulating platelets. Bone marrow microenvironment contains a large number of adipocytes with a still ill-defined role. This study aims to analyze the influence of adipocytes and increased medullar adiposity in megakaryopoiesis. An in vivo increased medullar adiposity in mice caused by high-fat-diet-induced obesity is associated to an enhanced MK maturation and proplatelet formation. In vitro co-culture of adipocytes with bone marrow hematopoietic progenitors shows that delipidation of adipocytes directly supports MK maturation by enhancing polyploidization, amplifying the demarcation membrane system, and accelerating proplatelet formation. This direct crosstalk between adipocytes and MKs occurs through adipocyte fatty acid transfer to MKs involving CD36 to reinforce megakaryocytic maturation. Thus, these findings unveil an influence of adiposity on MK homeostasis based on a dialogue between adipocytes and MKs."	0
"32783933"	"Activation of a Specific Gut Bacteroides-Folate-Liver Axis Benefits for the Alleviation of Nonalcoholic Hepatic Steatosis.A beneficial gut Bacteroides-folate-liver pathway regulating lipid metabolism is demonstrated. Oral administration of a Ganoderma meroterpene derivative (GMD) ameliorates nonalcoholic hepatic steatosis in the liver of fa/fa rats by reducing endotoxemia, enhancing lipid oxidation, decreasing de novo lipogenesis, and suppressing lipid export from the liver. An altered gut microbiota with an increase of butyrate and folate plays a causative role in the effects of GMD. The commensal bacteria Bacteroides xylanisolvens, Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, Bacteroides dorei, and Bacteroides uniformis, which are enriched by GMD, are major contributors to the increased gut folate. Administration of live B. xylanisolvens reduces hepatic steatosis and enhances the folate-mediated signaling pathways in mice. Knockout of the folate biosynthetic folp gene in B. xylanisolvens blocks its folate production and beneficial effects. This work confirms the therapeutic potential of GMD and B. xylanisolvens in alleviating nonalcoholic hepatic steatosis and provides evidence for benefits of the gut Bacteroides-folate-liver pathway."	0
"32763222"	"Looping the (R) Loop in DSB Repair via RNA Methylation.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Zhang et al. (2020) reveal that ATM triggers RNA methylation of DNA-RNA hybrids formed at double-strand breaks (DSBs) to modulate repair, adding a new layer of complexity to RNA's role in the DNA damage response."	0
"31495563"	"Transcriptional Responses to IFN-γ Require Mediator Kinase-Dependent Pause Release and Mechanistically Distinct CDK8 and CDK19 Functions.Transcriptional responses to external stimuli remain poorly understood. Using global nuclear run-on followed by sequencing (GRO-seq) and precision nuclear run-on sequencing (PRO-seq), we show that CDK8 kinase activity promotes RNA polymerase II pause release in response to interferon-γ (IFN-γ), a universal cytokine involved in immunity and tumor surveillance. The Mediator kinase module contains CDK8 or CDK19, which are presumed to be functionally redundant. We implemented cortistatin A, chemical genetics, transcriptomics, and other methods to decouple their function while assessing enzymatic versus structural roles. Unexpectedly, CDK8 and CDK19 regulated different gene sets via distinct mechanisms. CDK8-dependent regulation required its kinase activity, whereas CDK19 governed IFN-γ responses through its scaffolding function (i.e., it was kinase independent). Accordingly, CDK8, not CDK19, phosphorylates the STAT1 transcription factor (TF) during IFN-γ stimulation, and CDK8 kinase inhibition blocked activation of JAK-STAT pathway TFs. Cytokines such as IFN-γ rapidly mobilize TFs to ""reprogram"" cellular transcription; our results implicate CDK8 and CDK19 as essential for this transcriptional reprogramming."	1
"32675325"	"Neural production of kynurenic acid in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> requires the AAT-1 transporter.Kynurenic acid (KynA) levels link peripheral metabolic status to neural functions including learning and memory. Since neural KynA levels dampen learning capacity, KynA reduction has been proposed as a therapeutic strategy for conditions of cognitive deficit such as neurodegeneration. While KynA is generated locally within the nervous system, its precursor, kynurenine (Kyn), is largely derived from peripheral resources. The mechanisms that import Kyn into the nervous system are poorly understood. Here, we provide genetic, anatomical, biochemical, and behavioral evidence showing that in <i>C. elegans</i> an ortholog of the human LAT1 transporter, AAT-1, imports Kyn into sites of KynA production."	1
"31951530"	"Partners in Crime: Clandestine Operations among RAS-RAF Accomplices in Promoting Tumorigenesis.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Terrell et al. (2019) characterize the interactions of RAS-RAF complexes in live cells. Using bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) technology, they show that individual RAF family members exhibit distinct binding affinities to each RAS family protein, with CRAF exhibiting high binding affinities for all RAS proteins and BRAF exhibiting increased binding affinity for KRAS."	0
"32049007"	"Phenformin Inhibits Hedgehog-Dependent Tumor Growth through a Complex I-Independent Redox/Corepressor Module.The antidiabetic drug phenformin displays potent anticancer activity in different tumors, but its mechanism of action remains elusive. Using Shh medulloblastoma as model, we show here that at clinically relevant concentrations, phenformin elicits a significant therapeutic effect through a redox-dependent but complex I-independent mechanism. Phenformin inhibits mitochondrial glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (mGPD), a component of the glycerophosphate shuttle, and causes elevations of intracellular NADH content. Inhibition of mGPD mimics phenformin action and promotes an association between corepressor CtBP2 and Gli1, thereby inhibiting Hh transcriptional output and tumor growth. Because ablation of CtBP2 abrogates the therapeutic effect of phenformin in mice, these data illustrate a biguanide-mediated redox/corepressor interplay, which may represent a relevant target for tumor therapy."	1
"32905768"	"The Negative Cross-Talk between SAG/RBX2/ROC2 and APC/C E3 Ligases in Regulation of Cell Cycle Progression and Drug Resistance.Anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is a well-characterized E3 ligase that couples with UBE2C and UBE2S E2s for substrate ubiquitylation by the K11 linkage. Our recent data show that SAG/RBX2/ROC2, a RING component of Cullin-RING E3 ligase, also complexes with these E2s for K11-linked substrate polyubiquitylation. Whether these two E3s cross-talk with each other was previously unknown. Here, we report that SAG competes with APC2 for UBE2C/UBE2S binding to act as a potential endogenous inhibitor of APC/C, thereby regulating the G2-to-M progression. As such, SAG knockdown triggers premature activation of APC/C, leading to mitotic slippage and resistance to anti-microtubule drugs. On the other hand, SAG itself is a substrate of APC/C<sup>CDH1</sup> for targeted degradation at the G1 phase. The degradation-resistant mutant of SAG-R98A/L101A accelerates the G1-to-S progression. Our study reveals that the negative cross-talk between SAG and APC/C is likely a mechanism to ensure the fidelity of cell cycle progression."	1
"32610139"	"Atrx Deletion in Neurons Leads to Sexually Dimorphic Dysregulation of miR-137 and Spatial Learning and Memory Deficits.ATRX gene mutations have been identified in syndromic and non-syndromic intellectual disabilities in humans. ATRX is known to maintain genomic stability in neuroprogenitor cells, but its function in differentiated neurons and memory processes remains largely unresolved. Here, we show that the deletion of neuronal Atrx in mice leads to distinct hippocampal structural defects, fewer presynaptic vesicles, and an enlarged postsynaptic area at CA1 apical dendrite-axon junctions. We identify male-specific impairments in long-term contextual memory and in synaptic gene expression, linked to altered miR-137 levels. We show that ATRX directly binds to the miR-137 locus and that the enrichment of the suppressive histone mark H3K27me3 is significantly reduced upon the loss of ATRX. We conclude that the ablation of ATRX in excitatory forebrain neurons leads to sexually dimorphic effects on miR-137 expression and on spatial memory, identifying a potential therapeutic target for neurological defects caused by ATRX dysfunction."	1
"30704899"	"Pacer Is a Mediator of mTORC1 and GSK3-TIP60 Signaling in Regulation of Autophagosome Maturation and Lipid Metabolism.mTORC1 and GSK3 play critical roles in early stages of (macro)autophagy, but how they regulate late steps of autophagy remains poorly understood. Here we show that mTORC1 and GSK3-TIP60 signaling converge to modulate autophagosome maturation through Pacer, an autophagy regulator that was identified in our recent study. Hepatocyte-specific Pacer knockout in mice results in impaired autophagy flux, glycogen and lipid accumulation, and liver fibrosis. Under nutrient-rich conditions, mTORC1 phosphorylates Pacer at serine157 to disrupt the association of Pacer with Stx17 and the HOPS complex and thus abolishes Pacer-mediated autophagosome maturation. Importantly, dephosphorylation of Pacer under nutrient-deprived conditions promotes TIP60-mediated Pacer acetylation, which facilitates HOPS complex recruitment and is required for autophagosome maturation and lipid droplet clearance. This work not only identifies Pacer as a regulator in hepatic autophagy and liver homeostasis in vivo but also reveals a signal integration mechanism involved in late stages of autophagy and lipid metabolism."	1
"32592682"	"An Insulin-Sensitive Circular RNA that Regulates Lifespan in Drosophila.Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are abundant and accumulate with age in neurons of diverse species. However, only few circRNAs have been functionally characterized, and their role during aging has not been addressed. Here, we use transcriptome profiling during aging and find that accumulation of circRNAs is slowed down in long-lived insulin mutant flies. Next, we characterize the in vivo function of a circRNA generated by the sulfateless gene (circSfl), which is consistently upregulated, particularly in the brain and muscle, of diverse long-lived insulin mutants. Strikingly, lifespan extension of insulin mutants is dependent on circSfl, and overexpression of circSfl alone is sufficient to extend the lifespan. Moreover, circSfl is translated into a protein that shares the N terminus and potentially some functions with the full-length Sfl protein encoded by the host gene. Our study demonstrates that insulin signaling affects global circRNA accumulation and reveals an important role of circSfl during aging in vivo."	0
"31326272"	"Second Messenger cA<sub>4</sub> Formation within the Composite Csm1 Palm Pocket of Type III-A CRISPR-Cas Csm Complex and Its Release Path.Target RNA binding to crRNA-bound type III-A CRISPR-Cas multi-subunit Csm surveillance complexes activates cyclic-oligoadenylate (cA<sub>n</sub>) formation from ATP subunits positioned within the composite pair of Palm domain pockets of the Csm1 subunit. The generated cA<sub>n</sub> second messenger in turn targets the CARF domain of trans-acting RNase Csm6, triggering its HEPN domain-based RNase activity. We have undertaken cryo-EM studies on multi-subunit Thermococcus onnurineus Csm effector ternary complexes, as well as X-ray studies on Csm1-Csm4 cassette, both bound to substrate (AMPPNP), intermediates (pppA<sub>n</sub>), and products (cA<sub>n</sub>), to decipher mechanistic aspects of cA<sub>n</sub> formation and release. A network of intermolecular hydrogen bond alignments accounts for the observed adenosine specificity, with ligand positioning dictating formation of linear pppA<sub>n</sub> intermediates and subsequent cA<sub>n</sub> formation by cyclization. We combine our structural results with published functional studies to highlight mechanistic insights into the role of the Csm effector complex in mediating the cA<sub>n</sub> signaling pathway."	0
"31492635"	"PTEN Suppresses Glycolysis by Dephosphorylating and Inhibiting Autophosphorylated PGK1.The PTEN tumor suppressor is frequently mutated or deleted in cancer and regulates glucose metabolism through the PI3K-AKT pathway. However, whether PTEN directly regulates glycolysis in tumor cells is unclear. We demonstrate here that PTEN directly interacts with phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1). PGK1 functions not only as a glycolytic enzyme but also as a protein kinase intermolecularly autophosphorylating itself at Y324 for activation. The protein phosphatase activity of PTEN dephosphorylates and inhibits autophosphorylated PGK1, thereby inhibiting glycolysis, ATP production, and brain tumor cell proliferation. In addition, knockin expression of a PGK1 Y324F mutant inhibits brain tumor formation. Analyses of human glioblastoma specimens reveals that PGK1 Y324 phosphorylation levels inversely correlate with PTEN expression status and are positively associated with poor prognosis in glioblastoma patients. This work highlights the instrumental role of PGK1 autophosphorylation in its activation and PTEN protein phosphatase activity in governing glycolysis and tumorigenesis."	1
"32375038"	"Genome-wide Survey of Ribosome Collision.Ribosome movement is not always smooth and is rather often impeded. For ribosome pauses, fundamental issues remain to be addressed, including where ribosomes pause on mRNAs, what kind of RNA/amino acid sequence causes this pause, and the physiological significance of this attenuation of protein synthesis. Here, we survey the positions of ribosome collisions caused by ribosome pauses in humans and zebrafish using modified ribosome profiling. Collided ribosomes, i.e., disomes, emerge at various sites: Pro-Pro/Gly/Asp motifs; Arg-X-Lys motifs; stop codons; and 3' untranslated regions. The electrostatic interaction between the charged nascent chain and the ribosome exit tunnel determines the eIF5A-mediated disome rescue at the Pro-Pro sites. In particular, XBP1u, a precursor of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress-responsive transcription factor, shows striking queues of collided ribosomes and thus acts as a degradation substrate by ribosome-associated quality control. Our results provide insight into the causes and consequences of ribosome pause by dissecting collided ribosomes."	0
"32023455"	"Loss of Human TGS1 Hypermethylase Promotes Increased Telomerase RNA and Telomere Elongation.Biogenesis of the human telomerase RNA (hTR) involves a complex series of posttranscriptional modifications, including hypermethylation of the 5' mono-methylguanosine cap to a tri-methylguanosine cap (TMG). How the TMG cap affects hTR maturation is unknown. Here, we show that depletion of trimethylguanosine synthase 1 (TGS1), the enzyme responsible for cap hypermethylation, increases levels of hTR and telomerase. Diminished trimethylation increases hTR association with the cap-binding complex (CBC) and with Sm chaperone proteins. Loss of TGS1 causes an increase in accumulation of mature hTR in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm compared with controls. In TGS1 mutant cells, increased hTR assembles with telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) protein to yield elevated active telomerase complexes and increased telomerase activity, resulting in telomere elongation in cultured human cells. Our results show that TGS1-mediated hypermethylation of the hTR cap inhibits hTR accumulation, restrains levels of assembled telomerase, and limits telomere elongation."	0
"32783938"	"Essential Roles of Cohesin STAG2 in Mouse Embryonic Development and Adult Tissue Homeostasis.Cohesin mediates sister chromatid cohesion and 3D genome folding. Two versions of the complex carrying STAG1 or STAG2 coexist in somatic vertebrate cells. STAG2 is commonly mutated in cancer, and germline mutations have been identified in cohesinopathy patients. To better understand the underlying pathogenic mechanisms, we report the consequences of Stag2 ablation in mice. STAG2 is largely dispensable in adults, and its tissue-wide inactivation does not lead to tumors but reduces fitness and affects both hematopoiesis and intestinal homeostasis. STAG2 is also dispensable for murine embryonic fibroblasts in vitro. In contrast, Stag2-null embryos die by mid-gestation and show global developmental delay and defective heart morphogenesis, most prominently in structures derived from secondary heart field progenitors. Both decreased proliferation and altered transcription of tissue-specific genes contribute to these defects. Our results provide compelling evidence on cell- and tissue-specific roles of different cohesin complexes and how their dysfunction contributes to disease."	0
"32839549"	"Epigenetic silencing of the ubiquitin ligase subunit FBXL7 impairs c-SRC degradation and promotes epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and metastasis.Epigenetic plasticity is a pivotal factor that drives metastasis. Here, we show that the promoter of the gene that encodes the ubiquitin ligase subunit FBXL7 is hypermethylated in advanced prostate and pancreatic cancers, correlating with decreased FBXL7 mRNA and protein levels. Low FBXL7 mRNA levels are predictive of poor survival in patients with pancreatic and prostatic cancers. FBXL7 mediates the ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation of active c-SRC after its phosphorylation at Ser 104. The DNA-demethylating agent decitabine recovers FBXL7 expression and limits epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and cell invasion in a c-SRC-dependent manner. In vivo, FBXL7-depleted cancer cells form tumours with a high metastatic burden. Silencing of c-SRC or treatment with the c-SRC inhibitor dasatinib together with FBXL7 depletion prevents metastases. Furthermore, decitabine reduces metastases derived from prostate and pancreatic cancer cells in a FBXL7-dependent manner. Collectively, this research implicates FBXL7 as a metastasis-suppressor gene and suggests therapeutic strategies to counteract metastatic dissemination of pancreatic and prostatic cancer cells."	1
"31078384"	"The Cardiac Ryanodine Receptor Phosphorylation Hotspot Embraces PKA in a Phosphorylation-Dependent Manner.Ryanodine receptors (RyRs) are intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> release channels controlling essential cellular functions. RyRs are targeted by cyclic AMP (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase A (PKA), a controversial regulation implicated in disorders ranging from heart failure to Alzheimer's. Using crystal structures, we show that the phosphorylation hotspot domain of RyR2 embraces the PKA catalytic subunit, with an extensive interface not seen in PKA complexes with peptides. We trapped an intermediary open-form PKA bound to the RyR2 domain and an ATP analog, showing that PKA can engage substrates in an open form. Phosphomimetics or prior phosphorylation at nearby sites in RyR2 either enhance or reduce the activity of PKA. Finally, we show that a phosphomimetic at S2813, a well-known target site for calmodulin-dependent kinase II, induces the formation of an alpha helix in the phosphorylation domain, resulting in increased interactions and PKA activity. This shows that the different phosphorylation sites in RyR2 are not independent."	0
"31227231"	"HCF-1 Regulates De Novo Lipogenesis through a Nutrient-Sensitive Complex with ChREBP.Carbohydrate response element binding protein (ChREBP) is a key transcriptional regulator of de novo lipogenesis (DNL) in response to carbohydrates and in hepatic steatosis. Mechanisms underlying nutrient modulation of ChREBP are under active investigation. Here we identify host cell factor 1 (HCF-1) as a previously unknown ChREBP-interacting protein that is enriched in liver biopsies of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) patients. Biochemical and genetic studies show that HCF-1 is O-GlcNAcylated in response to glucose as a prerequisite for its binding to ChREBP and subsequent recruitment of OGT, ChREBP O-GlcNAcylation, and activation. The HCF-1:ChREBP complex resides at lipogenic gene promoters, where HCF-1 regulates H3K4 trimethylation to prime recruitment of the Jumonji C domain-containing histone demethylase PHF2 for epigenetic activation of these promoters. Overall, these findings define HCF-1's interaction with ChREBP as a previously unappreciated mechanism whereby glucose signals are both relayed to ChREBP and transmitted for epigenetic regulation of lipogenic genes."	1
"31995750"	"Cross-talk between CD38 and TTP Is Essential for Resolution of Inflammation during Microbial Sepsis.The resolution phase of acute inflammation is essential for tissue homeostasis, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We demonstrate that resolution of inflammation involves interactions between CD38 and tristetraprolin (TTP). During the onset of acute inflammation, CD38 levels are increased, leading to the production of Ca<sup>2+</sup>-signaling messengers, nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP), ADP ribose (ADPR), and cyclic ADPR (cADPR) from NAD(P)<sup>+</sup>. To initiate the onset of resolution, TTP expression is increased by the second messengers, NAADP and cADPR, which downregulate CD38 expression. The activation of TTP by Sirt1-dependent deacetylation, in response to increased NAD<sup>+</sup> levels, suppresses the acute inflammatory response and decreases Rheb expression, inhibits mTORC1, and induces autophagolysosomes for bacterial clearance. TTP may represent a mechanistic target of anti-inflammatory agents, such as carbon monoxide. TTP mediates crosstalk between acute inflammation and autophagic clearance of bacteria from damaged tissue in the resolution of inflammation during sepsis."	1
"30527665"	"Phosphorylated RB Promotes Cancer Immunity by Inhibiting NF-κB Activation and PD-L1 Expression.Aberrant expression of programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) in tumor cells promotes cancer progression by suppressing cancer immunity. The retinoblastoma protein RB is a tumor suppressor known to regulate the cell cycle, DNA damage response, and differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that RB interacts with nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) protein p65 and that their interaction is primarily dependent on CDK4/6-mediated serine-249/threonine-252 (S249/T252) phosphorylation of RB. RNA-seq analysis shows a subset of NF-κB pathway genes including PD-L1 are selectively upregulated by RB knockdown or CDK4/6 inhibitor. S249/T252-phosphorylated RB inversely correlates with PD-L1 expression in patient samples. Expression of a RB-derived S249/T252 phosphorylation-mimetic peptide suppresses radiotherapy-induced upregulation of PD-L1 and augments therapeutic efficacy of radiation in vivo. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized tumor suppressor function of hyperphosphorylated RB in suppressing NF-κB activity and PD-L1 expression and suggest that the RB-NF-κB axis can be exploited to overcome cancer immune evasion triggered by conventional or targeted therapies."	1
"32320663"	"Knocking Out Non-muscle Myosin II in Retinal Ganglion Cells Promotes Long-Distance Optic Nerve Regeneration.In addition to altered gene expression, pathological cytoskeletal dynamics in the axon are another key intrinsic barrier for axon regeneration in the central nervous system (CNS). Here, we show that knocking out myosin IIA and IIB (myosin IIA/B) in retinal ganglion cells alone, either before or after optic nerve crush, induces significant optic nerve regeneration. Combined Lin28a overexpression and myosin IIA/B knockout lead to an additive promoting effect and long-distance axon regeneration. Immunostaining, RNA sequencing, and western blot analyses reveal that myosin II deletion does not affect known axon regeneration signaling pathways or the expression of regeneration-associated genes. Instead, it abolishes the retraction bulb formation and significantly enhances the axon extension efficiency. The study provides clear evidence that directly targeting neuronal cytoskeleton is sufficient to induce significant CNS axon regeneration and that combining altered gene expression in the soma and modified cytoskeletal dynamics in the axon is a promising approach for long-distance CNS axon regeneration."	0
"31000437"	"Regulation of UCP1 and Mitochondrial Metabolism in Brown Adipose Tissue by Reversible Succinylation.Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is rich in mitochondria and plays important roles in energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. We find that levels of mitochondrial protein succinylation and malonylation are high in BAT and subject to physiological and genetic regulation. BAT-specific deletion of Sirt5, a mitochondrial desuccinylase and demalonylase, results in dramatic increases in global protein succinylation and malonylation. Mass spectrometry-based quantification of succinylation reveals that Sirt5 regulates the key thermogenic protein in BAT, UCP1. Mutation of the two succinylated lysines in UCP1 to acyl-mimetic glutamine and glutamic acid significantly decreases its stability and activity. The reduced function of UCP1 and other proteins in Sirt5KO BAT results in impaired mitochondria respiration, defective mitophagy, and metabolic inflexibility. Thus, succinylation of UCP1 and other mitochondrial proteins plays an important role in BAT and in regulation of energy homeostasis."	1
"30975460"	"RRM Transcription Factors Interact with NLRs and Regulate Broad-Spectrum Blast Resistance in Rice.Nucleotide-binding site leucine-rich repeat (NLR) receptors perceive pathogen effectors and trigger plant immunity. However, the mechanisms underlying NLR-triggered defense responses remain obscure. The recently discovered Pigm locus in rice encodes a cluster of NLRs, including PigmR, which confers broad-spectrum resistance to blast fungus. Here, we identify PIBP1 (PigmR-INTERACTING and BLAST RESISTANCE PROTEIN 1), an RRM (RNA-recognition motif) protein that specifically interacts with PigmR and other similar NLRs to trigger blast resistance. PigmR-promoted nuclear accumulation of PIBP1 ensures full blast resistance. We find that PIBP1 and a homolog, Os06 g02240, bind DNA and function as unconventional transcription factors at the promoters of the defense genes OsWAK14 and OsPAL1, activating their expression. Knockout of PIBP1 and Os06 g02240 greatly attenuated blast resistance. Collectively, our study discovers previously unappreciated RRM transcription factors that directly interact with NLRs to activate plant defense, establishing a direct link between transcriptional activation of immune responses with NLR-mediated pathogen perception."	0
"32651230"	"Extracellular vesicles secreted by HBV-infected cells modulate HBV persistence in hydrodynamic HBV transfection mouse model.Hepatitis B, a viral infection that affects the liver, is thought to affect over 257 million people worldwide, and long-term infection can lead to life-threatening issues such as cirrhosis or liver cancer. Chronic hepatitis B develops by the interaction between hepatitis B virus (HBV) and host immune response. However, questions of how HBV-infected cells thwart immune system defenses remain unanswered. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are used for cellular communication, carrying cargoes such as RNAs, proteins, and lipids and delivering them intracellularly after being endocytosed by target cells. HBV-infected liver cells secrete several types of EVs into body fluids such as complete and incomplete virions, and exosomes. We previously demonstrated that monocytes that incorporated EVs moved to immunoregulatory phenotypes via up-regulation of PD-L1, an immunocheckpoint molecule, and down-regulation of CD69, a leukocyte activation molecule. In this study, we transfected mice with HBV using hydrodynamic injection and studied the effects of EVs secreted by HBV-infected liver cells. EVs secreted from cells with HBV replication strongly suppressed the immune response, inhibiting the eradication of HBV-replicating cells in the mice transfected with HBV. EVs were systemically incorporated in multiple organs, including liver, bone marrow (BM), and intestine. Intriguingly, the BM cells that incorporated EVs acquired intestinal tropism and the dendritic cell populations in the intestine increased. These findings suggest that the EVs secreted by HBV-infected liver cells exert immunosuppressive functions, and that an association between the liver, bone marrow, and intestinal tract exists through EVs secreted from HBV-infected cells."	0
"32017897"	"Structure-Mediated RNA Decay by UPF1 and G3BP1.Post-transcriptional mechanisms regulate the stability and, hence, expression of coding and noncoding RNAs. Sequence-specific features within the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) often direct mRNAs for decay. Here, we characterize a genome-wide RNA decay pathway that reduces the half-lives of mRNAs based on overall 3' UTR structure formed by base pairing. The decay pathway is independent of specific single-stranded sequences, as regulation is maintained in both the original and reverse complement orientation. Regulation can be compromised by reducing the overall structure by fusing the 3' UTR with an unstructured sequence. Mutating base-paired RNA regions can also compromise this structure-mediated regulation, which can be restored by re-introducing base-paired structures of different sequences. The decay pathway requires the RNA-binding protein UPF1 and its associated protein G3BP1. Depletion of either protein increased steady-state levels of mRNAs with highly structured 3' UTRs as well as highly structured circular RNAs. This structure-dependent mechanism therefore enables cells to selectively regulate coding and noncoding RNAs."	0
"32075737"	"CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> T Cells Are Highly Enriched for HIV DNA and Can Support Transcriptional Latency.The HIV latent reservoir forms the major hurdle to an HIV cure. The discovery of CD32 as marker of this reservoir has aroused much interest, but subsequent reports have challenged this finding. Here, we observe a positive correlation between the percentages of CD32<sup>+</sup> cells among CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells of aviremic cART-treated, HIV-infected individuals and their HIV DNA loads in peripheral blood. Moreover, optimization of the CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> T cell purification protocol reveals prominent enrichment for HIV DNA (mean, 292-fold) in these cells. However, no enrichment for HIV RNA is observed in CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> cells, yielding significantly reduced HIV RNA/DNA ratios. Furthermore, HIV proviruses in CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> cells can be reactivated ex vivo to produce virus, strongly suggesting that these cells support HIV transcriptional latency. Our results underscore the importance of isolating pure, bona fide CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells for future studies and indicate that CD32 remains a promising candidate marker of the HIV reservoir."	0
"32414842"	"Discovery and mechanistic studies of cytotoxic cyclotides from the medicinal herb <i>Hybanthus enneaspermus</i>.Cyclotides are plant-derived peptides characterized by an ∼30-amino acid-long cyclic backbone and a cystine knot motif. Cyclotides have diverse bioactivities, and their cytotoxicity has attracted significant attention for its potential anticancer applications. <i>Hybanthus enneaspermus</i> (Linn) F. Muell is a medicinal herb widely used in India as a libido enhancer, and a previous study has reported that it may contain cyclotides. In the current study, we isolated 11 novel cyclotides and 1 known cyclotide (cycloviolacin O2) from <i>H. enneaspermus</i> and used tandem MS to determine their amino acid sequences. We found that among these cyclotides, hyen C comprises a unique sequence in loops 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 compared with known cyclotides. The most abundant cyclotide in this plant, hyen D, had anticancer activity comparable to that of cycloviolacin O2, one of the most cytotoxic known cyclotides. We also provide mechanistic insights into how these novel cyclotides interact with and permeabilize cell membranes. Results from surface plasmon resonance experiments revealed that hyen D, E, L, and M and cycloviolacin O2 preferentially interact with model lipid membranes that contain phospholipids with phosphatidyl-ethanolamine headgroups. The results of a lactate dehydrogenase assay indicated that exposure to these cyclotides compromises cell membrane integrity. Using live-cell imaging, we show that hyen D induces rapid membrane blebbing and cell necrosis. Cyclotide-membrane interactions correlated with the observed cytotoxicity, suggesting that membrane permeabilization and disintegration underpin cyclotide cytotoxicity. These findings broaden our knowledge on the indigenous Indian herb <i>H. enneaspermus</i> and have uncovered cyclotides with potential anticancer activity."	0
"32294436"	"Glioma-Induced Alterations in Neuronal Activity and Neurovascular Coupling during Disease Progression.Diffusely infiltrating gliomas are known to cause alterations in cortical function, vascular disruption, and seizures. These neurological complications present major clinical challenges, yet their underlying mechanisms and causal relationships to disease progression are poorly characterized. Here, we follow glioma progression in awake Thy1-GCaMP6f mice using in vivo wide-field optical mapping to monitor alterations in both neuronal activity and functional hemodynamics. The bilateral synchrony of spontaneous neuronal activity gradually decreases in glioma-infiltrated cortical regions, while neurovascular coupling becomes progressively disrupted compared to uninvolved cortex. Over time, mice develop diverse patterns of high amplitude discharges and eventually generalized seizures that appear to originate at the tumors' infiltrative margins. Interictal and seizure events exhibit positive neurovascular coupling in uninfiltrated cortex; however, glioma-infiltrated regions exhibit disrupted hemodynamic responses driving seizure-evoked hypoxia. These results reveal a landscape of complex physiological interactions occurring during glioma progression and present new opportunities for exploring novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets."	0
"32783940"	"FOXK1 Participates in DNA Damage Response by Controlling 53BP1 Function.53BP1 plays a central role in dictating DNA repair choice between non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR), which is important for the sensitivity to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPis) of BRCA1-deficient cancers. In this study, we show that FOXK1 associates with 53BP1 and regulates 53BP1-dependent functions. FOXK1-53BP1 interaction is significantly enhanced upon DNA damage during the S phase in an ATM/CHK2-dependent manner, which reduces the association of 53BP1 with its downstream factors RIF1 and PTIP. Depletion of FOXK1 impairs DNA repair and induces compromised cell survival upon DNA damage. Overexpression of FOXK1 diminishes 53BP1 foci formation, which leads to resistance to PARPis and elevation of HR in BRCA1-deficient cells and decreased telomere fusion in TRF2-depleted cells. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that FOXK1 negatively regulates 53BP1 function by inhibiting 53BP1 localization to sites of DNA damage, which alters the DSB-induced protein complexes centering on 53BP1 and thus influences DNA repair choice."	1
"32738194"	"Quality Control of ER Membrane Proteins by the RNF185/Membralin Ubiquitin Ligase Complex.Misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are degraded by ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Although ERAD components involved in degradation of luminal substrates are well characterized, much less is known about quality control of membrane proteins. Here, we analyzed the degradation pathways of two short-lived ER membrane model proteins in mammalian cells. Using a CRISPR-Cas9 genome-wide library screen, we identified an ERAD branch required for quality control of a subset of membrane proteins. Using biochemical and mass spectrometry approaches, we showed that this ERAD branch is defined by an ER membrane complex consisting of the ubiquitin ligase RNF185, the ubiquitin-like domain containing proteins TMUB1/2 and TMEM259/Membralin, a poorly characterized protein. This complex cooperates with cytosolic ubiquitin ligase UBE3C and p97 ATPase in degrading their membrane substrates. Our data reveal that ERAD branches have remarkable specificity for their membrane substrates, suggesting that multiple, perhaps combinatorial, determinants are involved in substrate selection."	1
"32574554"	"Two-Parameter Mobility Assessments Discriminate Diverse Regulatory Factor Behaviors in Chromatin.Enzymatic probes of chromatin structure reveal accessible versus inaccessible chromatin states, while super-resolution microscopy reveals a continuum of chromatin compaction states. Characterizing histone H2B movements by single-molecule tracking (SMT), we resolved chromatin domains ranging from low to high mobility and displaying different subnuclear localizations patterns. Heterochromatin constituents correlated with the lowest mobility chromatin, whereas transcription factors varied widely with regard to their respective mobility with low- or high-mobility chromatin. Pioneer transcription factors, which bind nucleosomes, can access the low-mobility chromatin domains, whereas weak or non-nucleosome binding factors are excluded from the domains and enriched in higher mobility domains. Nonspecific DNA and nucleosome binding accounted for most of the low mobility of strong nucleosome interactor FOXA1. Our analysis shows how the parameters of the mobility of chromatin-bound factors, but not their diffusion behaviors or SMT-residence times within chromatin, distinguish functional characteristics of different chromatin-interacting proteins."	0
"32492424"	"Critical Roles of Translation Initiation and RNA Uridylation in Endogenous Retroviral Expression and Neural Differentiation in Pluripotent Stem Cells.Previous studies have suggested that the loss of the translation initiation factor eIF4G1 homolog NAT1 induces excessive self-renewability of naive pluripotent stem cells (PSCs); yet the role of NAT1 in the self-renewal and differentiation of primed PSCs is still unclear. Here, we generate a conditional knockout of NAT1 in primed PSCs and use the cells for the functional analyses of NAT1. Our results show that NAT1 is required for the self-renewal and neural differentiation of primed PSCs. In contrast, NAT1 deficiency in naive pluripotency attenuates the differentiation to all cell types. We also find that NAT1 is involved in efficient protein expression of an RNA uridyltransferase, TUT7. TUT7 is involved in the neural differentiation of primed PSCs via the regulation of human endogenous retrovirus accumulation. These data demonstrate the essential roles of NAT1 and TUT7 in the precise transition of stem cell fate."	1
"32187539"	"The Borrelia burgdorferi VlsE Lipoprotein Prevents Antibody Binding to an Arthritis-Related Surface Antigen.Arp is an immunogenic protein of the Lyme disease spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi and contributes to joint inflammation during infection. Despite Arp eliciting a strong humoral response, antibodies fail to clear the infection. Given previous evidence of immune avoidance mediated by the antigenically variable lipoprotein of B. burgdorferi, VlsE, we use passive immunization assays to examine whether VlsE protects the pathogen from anti-Arp antibodies. The results show that spirochetes are only able to successfully infect passively immunized mice when VlsE is expressed. Subsequent immunofluorescence assays reveal that VlsE prevents binding of Arp-specific antibodies, thereby providing an explanation for the failure of Arp antisera to clear the infection. The results also show that the shielding effect of VlsE is not universal for all B. burgdorferi cell-surface antigens. The findings reported here represent a direct demonstration of VlsE-mediated protection of a specific B. burgdorferi surface antigen through a possible epitope-shielding mechanism."	0
"31980388"	"A Cancer-Specific Ubiquitin Ligase Drives mRNA Alternative Polyadenylation by Ubiquitinating the mRNA 3' End Processing Complex.Alternative polyadenylation (APA) contributes to transcriptome complexity by generating mRNA isoforms with varying 3' UTR lengths. APA leading to 3' UTR shortening (3' US) is a common feature of most cancer cells; however, the molecular mechanisms are not understood. Here, we describe a widespread mechanism promoting 3' US in cancer through ubiquitination of the mRNA 3' end processing complex protein, PCF11, by the cancer-specific MAGE-A11-HUWE1 ubiquitin ligase. MAGE-A11 is normally expressed only in the male germline but is frequently re-activated in cancers. MAGE-A11 is necessary for cancer cell viability and is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis. Screening for targets of MAGE-A11 revealed that it ubiquitinates PCF11, resulting in loss of CFIm25 from the mRNA 3' end processing complex. This leads to APA of many transcripts affecting core oncogenic and tumor suppressors, including cyclin D2 and PTEN. These findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms driving APA in cancer and suggest therapeutic strategies."	1
"32386542"	"Single-Cell Analyses Reveal Megakaryocyte-Biased Hematopoiesis in Myelofibrosis and Identify Mutant Clone-Specific Targets.Myelofibrosis is a severe myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by increased numbers of abnormal bone marrow megakaryocytes that induce fibrosis, destroying the hematopoietic microenvironment. To determine the cellular and molecular basis for aberrant megakaryopoiesis in myelofibrosis, we performed single-cell transcriptome profiling of 135,929 CD34<sup>+</sup> lineage<sup>-</sup> hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), single-cell proteomics, genomics, and functional assays. We identified a bias toward megakaryocyte differentiation apparent from early multipotent stem cells in myelofibrosis and associated aberrant molecular signatures. A sub-fraction of myelofibrosis megakaryocyte progenitors (MkPs) are transcriptionally similar to healthy-donor MkPs, but the majority are disease specific, with distinct populations expressing fibrosis- and proliferation-associated genes. Mutant-clone HSPCs have increased expression of megakaryocyte-associated genes compared to wild-type HSPCs, and we provide early validation of G6B as a potential immunotherapy target. Our study paves the way for selective targeting of the myelofibrosis clone and illustrates the power of single-cell multi-omics to discover tumor-specific therapeutic targets and mediators of tissue fibrosis."	0
"32485148"	"ERK2 Phosphorylates PFAS to Mediate Posttranslational Control of De Novo Purine Synthesis.The RAS-ERK/MAPK (RAS-extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway integrates growth-promoting signals to stimulate cell growth and proliferation, at least in part, through alterations in metabolic gene expression. However, examples of direct and rapid regulation of the metabolic pathways by the RAS-ERK pathway remain elusive. We find that physiological and oncogenic ERK signaling activation leads to acute metabolic flux stimulation through the de novo purine synthesis pathway, thereby increasing building block availability for RNA and DNA synthesis, which is required for cell growth and proliferation. We demonstrate that ERK2, but not ERK1, phosphorylates the purine synthesis enzyme PFAS (phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase) at T619 in cells to stimulate de novo purine synthesis. The expression of nonphosphorylatable PFAS (T619A) decreases purine synthesis, RAS-dependent cancer cell-colony formation, and tumor growth. Thus, ERK2-mediated PFAS phosphorylation facilitates the increase in nucleic acid synthesis required for anabolic cell growth and proliferation."	1
"31914393"	"TACC3 Regulates Microtubule Plus-End Dynamics and Cargo Transport in Interphase Cells.End-binding proteins (EBs) are widely viewed as master regulators of microtubule dynamics and function. Here, we show that while EB1 mediates the dynamic microtubule capture of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) in fibroblasts, in neuronal cells, infection occurs independently of EBs through stable microtubules. Prompted by this, we find that transforming acid coiled-coil protein 3 (TACC3), widely studied in mitotic spindle formation, regulates the cytoplasmic localization of the microtubule polymerizing factor chTOG and influences microtubule plus-end dynamics during interphase to control infection in distinct cell types. Furthermore, perturbing TACC3 function in neuronal cells resulted in the formation of disorganized stable, detyrosinated microtubule networks and changes in cellular morphology, as well as impaired trafficking of both HSV-1 and transferrin. These trafficking defects in TACC3-depleted cells were reversed by the depletion of kinesin-1 heavy chains. As such, TACC3 is a critical regulator of interphase microtubule dynamics and stability that influences kinesin-1-based cargo trafficking."	0
"32814047"	"Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzyme 2S Enhances Viral Replication by Inhibiting Type I IFN Production through Recruiting USP15 to Deubiquitinate TBK1.Type I interferon (IFN) plays an essential role in the host innate immune responses. Several ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) family members were reported to regulate type I IFN production and host antiviral immune responses. However, the molecular mechanisms are still not fully understood. Here, we report that UBE2S acts as a negative regulator in the type I IFN signaling pathway. Ectopic expression of UBE2S inhibits host antiviral immune responses and enhances viral replications, whereas deficiency of UBE2S enhances host antiviral immune responses and suppresses viral replications both in vitro and in vivo. Inhibition of type І IFN production by UBE2S is independent on its E2 and E3 enzymic activity. Mechanistically, UBE2S interacts with TBK1 and recruits ubiquitin-specific protease 15 (USP15) to remove Lys63 (K63)-linked polyubiquitin chains of TBK1. Our findings reveal a role of the UBE2S-USP15-TBK1 axis in the regulation of host antiviral innate immune responses."	1
"31914389"	"STCH4/REIL2 Confers Cold Stress Tolerance in Arabidopsis by Promoting rRNA Processing and CBF Protein Translation.Plants respond to cold stress by inducing the expression of transcription factors that regulate downstream genes to confer tolerance to freezing. We screened an Arabidopsis transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion library and identified a cold-hypersensitive mutant, which we named stch4 (sensitive to chilling 4). STCH4/REIL2 encodes a ribosomal biogenesis factor that is upregulated upon cold stress. Overexpression of STCH4 confers chilling and freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis. The stch4 mutation reduces CBF protein levels and thus delayed the induction of C-repeat-binding factor (CBF) regulon genes. Ribosomal RNA processing is reduced in stch4 mutants, especially under cold stress. STCH4 associates with multiple ribosomal proteins, and these interactions are modulated by cold stress. These results suggest that the ribosome is a regulatory node for cold stress responses and that STCH4 promotes an altered ribosomal composition and functions in low temperatures to facilitate the translation of proteins important for plant growth and survival under cold stress."	1
"32580943"	"In-cell infrared difference spectroscopy of LOV photoreceptors reveals structural responses to light altered in living cells.Proteins are usually studied in well-defined buffer conditions, which differ substantially from those within a host cell. In some cases, the intracellular environment has an impact on the mechanism, which might be missed by <i>in vitro</i> experiments. IR difference spectroscopy previously has been applied to study the light-induced response of photoreceptors and photoenzymes <i>in vitro</i> Here, we established the in-cell IR difference (ICIRD) spectroscopy in the transmission and attenuated total reflection configuration to investigate the light-induced response of soluble proteins in living bacterial cells. ICIRD spectroscopy on the light, oxygen, or voltage (LOV) domains of the blue light receptors aureochrome and phototropin revealed a suppression of the response of specific secondary structure elements, indicating that the intracellular environment affects LOV photoreceptor mechanisms in general. Moreover, in-cell fluorescence spectroscopy disclosed that the intracellular environment slows down the recovery of the light-induced flavin adduct. Segment-resolved ICIRD spectroscopy on basic-region leucine zipper (bZIP)-LOV of aureochrome 1a from the diatom <i>Phaeodactylum tricornutum</i> indicated a signal progression from the LOV sensor to the bZIP effector independent of unfolding of the connecting A'α-helix, an observation that stood in contrast to <i>in vitro</i> results. This deviation was recapitulated <i>in vitro</i> by emulating the intracellular environment through the addition of the crowding agent BSA, but not by sucrose polymers. We conclude that ICIRD spectroscopy is a noninvasive, label-free approach for assessing conformational changes in receptors in living cells at ambient conditions. As demonstrated, these near-native responses may deviate from the mechanisms established under <i>in vitro</i> conditions."	0
"31351878"	"Network Rewiring of Homologous Recombination Enzymes during Mitotic Proliferation and Meiosis.Homologous recombination (HR) is essential for high-fidelity DNA repair during mitotic proliferation and meiosis. Yet, context-specific modifications must tailor the recombination machinery to avoid (mitosis) or enforce (meiosis) the formation of reciprocal exchanges-crossovers-between recombining chromosomes. To obtain molecular insight into how crossover control is achieved, we affinity purified 7 DNA-processing enzymes that channel HR intermediates into crossovers or noncrossovers from vegetative cells or cells undergoing meiosis. Using mass spectrometry, we provide a global characterization of their composition and reveal mitosis- and meiosis-specific modules in the interaction networks. Functional analyses of meiosis-specific interactors of MutLγ-Exo1 identified Rtk1, Caf120, and Chd1 as regulators of crossing-over. Chd1, which transiently associates with Exo1 at the prophase-to-metaphase I transition, enables the formation of MutLγ-dependent crossovers through its conserved ability to bind and displace nucleosomes. Thus, rewiring of the HR network, coupled to chromatin remodeling, promotes context-specific control of the recombination outcome."	0
"32115408"	"Cerebral organoid and mouse models reveal a RAB39b-PI3K-mTOR pathway-dependent dysregulation of cortical development leading to macrocephaly/autism phenotypes.Dysregulation of early neurodevelopment is implicated in macrocephaly/autism disorders. However, the mechanism underlying this dysregulation, particularly in human cells, remains poorly understood. Mutations in the small GTPase gene <i>RAB39b</i> are associated with X-linked macrocephaly, autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and intellectual disability. The in vivo roles of RAB39b in the brain remain unknown. We generated <i>Rab39b</i> knockout (KO) mice and found that they exhibited cortical neurogenesis impairment, macrocephaly, and hallmark ASD behaviors, which resembled patient phenotypes. We also produced mutant human cerebral organoids that were substantially enlarged due to the overproliferation and impaired differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs), which resemble neurodevelopmental deficits in KO mice. Mechanistic studies reveal that RAB39b interacts with PI3K components and its deletion promotes PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling in NPCs of mouse cortex and cerebral organoids. The mTOR activity is robustly enhanced in mutant outer radial glia cells (oRGs), a subtype of NPCs barely detectable in rodents but abundant in human brains. Inhibition of AKT signaling rescued enlarged organoid sizes and NPC overproliferation caused by <i>RAB39b</i> mutations. Therefore, <i>RAB39b</i> mutation promotes PI3K-AKT-mTOR activity and alters cortical neurogenesis, leading to macrocephaly and autistic-like behaviors. Our studies provide new insights into neurodevelopmental dysregulation and common pathways associated with ASD across species."	1
"32348757"	"Evaluation of Single-Cell Cytokine Secretion and Cell-Cell Interactions with a Hierarchical Loading Microwell Chip.Comprehensive evaluation of single T cell functions such as cytokine secretion and cytolysis of target cells is greatly needed in adoptive cell therapy (ACT) but has never been fully fulfilled by current approaches. Herein, we develop a hierarchical loading microwell chip (HL-Chip) that aligns multiple cells and functionalized beads in a high-throughput microwell array with single-cell/bead precision based on size differences. We demonstrate the potential of the HL-Chip in evaluating single T cell functions by three applications: high-throughput longitudinal secretory profiling of single T cells, large-scale evaluation of cytolytic activity of single T cells, and integrated T cell-tumor cell interactions. The HL-Chip is a simple and robust technology that constructs arrays of defined cell/object combinations for multiple measurements and material retrieval."	0
"30704900"	"BRCA1 Haploinsufficiency Is Masked by RNF168-Mediated Chromatin Ubiquitylation.BRCA1 functions at two distinct steps during homologous recombination (HR). Initially, it promotes DNA end resection, and subsequently it recruits the PALB2 and BRCA2 mediator complex, which stabilizes RAD51-DNA nucleoprotein filaments. Loss of 53BP1 rescues the HR defect in BRCA1-deficient cells by increasing resection, suggesting that BRCA1's downstream role in RAD51 loading is dispensable when 53BP1 is absent. Here we show that the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF168, in addition to its canonical role in inhibiting end resection, acts in a redundant manner with BRCA1 to load PALB2 onto damaged DNA. Loss of RNF168 negates the synthetic rescue of BRCA1 deficiency by 53BP1 deletion, and it predisposes BRCA1 heterozygous mice to cancer. BRCA1<sup>+/-</sup>RNF168<sup>-/-</sup> cells lack RAD51 foci and are hypersensitive to PARP inhibitor, whereas forced targeting of PALB2 to DNA breaks in mutant cells circumvents BRCA1 haploinsufficiency. Inhibiting the chromatin ubiquitin pathway may, therefore, be a synthetic lethality strategy for BRCA1-deficient cancers."	0
"30853401"	"Spatiotemporal Control of ULK1 Activation by NDP52 and TBK1 during Selective Autophagy.Selective autophagy recycles damaged organelles and clears intracellular pathogens to prevent their aberrant accumulation. How ULK1 kinase is targeted and activated during selective autophagic events remains to be elucidated. In this study, we used chemically inducible dimerization (CID) assays in tandem with CRISPR KO lines to systematically analyze the molecular basis of selective autophagosome biogenesis. We demonstrate that ectopic placement of NDP52 on mitochondria or peroxisomes is sufficient to initiate selective autophagy by focally localizing and activating the ULK1 complex. The capability of NDP52 to induce mitophagy is dependent on its interaction with the FIP200/ULK1 complex, which is facilitated by TBK1. Ectopically tethering ULK1 to cargo bypasses the requirement for autophagy receptors and TBK1. Focal activation of ULK1 occurs independently of AMPK and mTOR. Our findings provide a parsimonious model of selective autophagy, which highlights the coordination of ULK1 complex localization by autophagy receptors and TBK1 as principal drivers of targeted autophagosome biogenesis."	1
"32640237"	"Single-Cell and Population Transcriptomics Reveal Pan-epithelial Remodeling in Type 2-High Asthma.The type 2 cytokine-high asthma endotype (T2H) is characterized by IL-13-driven mucus obstruction of the airways. To further investigate this incompletely understood pathobiology, we characterize IL-13 effects on human airway epithelial cell cultures using single-cell RNA sequencing, finding that IL-13 generates a distinctive transcriptional state for each cell type. Specifically, we discover a mucus secretory program induced by IL-13 in all cell types which converts both mucus and defense secretory cells into a metaplastic state with emergent mucin production and secretion, while leading to ER stress and cell death in ciliated cells. The IL-13-remodeled epithelium secretes a pathologic, mucin-imbalanced, and innate immunity-depleted proteome that arrests mucociliary motion. Signatures of IL-13-induced cellular remodeling are mirrored by transcriptional signatures characteristic of the nasal airway epithelium within T2H versus T2-low asthmatic children. Our results reveal the epithelium-wide scope of T2H asthma and present candidate therapeutic targets for restoring normal epithelial function."	0
"32243830"	"Imprinted Small RNAs Unraveled: Maternal MicroRNAs Antagonize a Paternal-Genome-Driven Gene Expression Network.Whipple et al., 2020 describe that, in neurons, a dense cluster of maternally expressed microRNAs post-transcriptionally downregulates several imprinted genes expressed from the paternal genome-an antagonistic mechanism that modulates neuronal functions and provides insights into the evolution of genomic imprinting."	0
"32320664"	"IL-33-PU.1 Transcriptome Reprogramming Drives Functional State Transition and Clearance Activity of Microglia in Alzheimer's Disease.Impairment of microglial clearance activity contributes to beta-amyloid (Aβ) pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD). While the transcriptome profile of microglia directs microglial functions, how the microglial transcriptome can be regulated to alleviate AD pathology is largely unknown. Here, we show that injection of interleukin (IL)-33 in an AD transgenic mouse model ameliorates Aβ pathology by reprogramming microglial epigenetic and transcriptomic profiles to induce a microglial subpopulation with enhanced phagocytic activity. These IL-33-responsive microglia (IL-33RMs) express a distinct transcriptome signature that is highlighted by increased major histocompatibility complex class II genes and restored homeostatic signature genes. IL-33-induced remodeling of chromatin accessibility and PU.1 transcription factor binding at the signature genes of IL-33RM control their transcriptome reprogramming. Specifically, disrupting PU.1-DNA interaction abolishes the microglial state transition and Aβ clearance that is induced by IL-33. Thus, we define a PU.1-dependent transcriptional pathway that drives the IL-33-induced functional state transition of microglia, resulting in enhanced Aβ clearance."	0
"32698012"	"Complexin Suppresses Spontaneous Exocytosis by Capturing the Membrane-Proximal Regions of VAMP2 and SNAP25.The neuronal protein complexin contains multiple domains that exert clamping and facilitatory functions to tune spontaneous and action potential-triggered synaptic release. We address the clamping mechanism and show that the accessory helix of complexin arrests assembly of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex that forms the core machinery of intracellular membrane fusion. In a reconstituted fusion assay, site- and stage-specific photo-cross-linking reveals that, prior to fusion, the complexin accessory helix laterally binds the membrane-proximal C-terminal ends of SNAP25 and VAMP2. Corresponding complexin interface mutants selectively increase spontaneous release of neurotransmitters in living neurons, implying that the accessory helix suppresses final zippering/assembly of the SNARE four-helix bundle by restraining VAMP2 and SNAP25."	0
"32460017"	"Pyruvate Kinase M2 Promotes the Activation of Dendritic Cells by Enhancing IL-12p35 Expression.Dendritic cells (DCs) play a central role in both innate and adaptive immunity. Emerging evidence has demonstrated metabolic reprogramming during DC activation. However, how DC activation is linked with metabolic reprogramming remains unclear. Here we show that pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), the rate-limiting enzyme in the last step of glycolysis, is critical for LPS-induced DC activation. Upon DC activation, JNK signaling stimulated p300 association with PKM2 for the acetylation of lysine 433, a classic posttranslational modification critical for PKM2 destabilization and nuclear re-localization. Subsequently, nuclear PKM2 partnered with c-Rel to enhance Il12p35 expression, which is important for Th1 cell differentiation. Meanwhile, decreased enzymatic activity of PKM2 due to detetramerization facilitated glycolysis and fatty acid synthesis, helping DCs meet their need for biomacromolecules. Together, we provide evidence for metabolic control of DC activation and offer insights into aberrant immune responses due to dysregulated Th1 functions."	1
"30824372"	"P-TEFb Activation by RBM7 Shapes a Pro-survival Transcriptional Response to Genotoxic Stress.DNA damage response (DDR) involves dramatic transcriptional alterations, the mechanisms of which remain ill defined. Here, we show that following genotoxic stress, the RNA-binding motif protein 7 (RBM7) stimulates RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription and promotes cell viability by activating the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) via its release from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (7SK snRNP). This is mediated by activation of p38<sup>MAPK</sup>, which triggers enhanced binding of RBM7 with core subunits of 7SK snRNP. In turn, P-TEFb relocates to chromatin to induce transcription of short units, including key DDR genes and multiple classes of non-coding RNAs. Critically, interfering with the axis of RBM7 and P-TEFb provokes cellular hypersensitivity to DNA-damage-inducing agents due to activation of apoptosis. Our work uncovers the importance of stress-dependent stimulation of Pol II pause release, which enables a pro-survival transcriptional response that is crucial for cell fate upon genotoxic insult."	1
"32579928"	"Fibroblast-Derived STC-1 Modulates Tumor-Associated Macrophages and Lung Adenocarcinoma Development.The tumor microenvironment (TME) consists of different cell types, including tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and tumor-associated fibroblasts (TAFs). How these cells interact and contribute to lung carcinogenesis remains elusive. Using <sup>G12D</sup>KRAS- and <sup>V600E</sup>BRAF-driven mouse lung models, we identify the pleiotropic glycoprotein stanniocalcin-1 (STC1) as a regulator of TAM-TAF interactions. STC1 is secreted by TAFs and suppresses TAM differentiation, at least in part, by sequestering the binding of GRP94, an autocrine macrophage-differentiation-inducing factor, to its cognate scavenger receptors. The accumulation of mature TAMs in the Stc1-deficient lung leads to enhanced secretion of TGF-β1 and, thus, TAF accumulation in the TME. Consistent with the mouse data, in human lung adenocarcinoma, STC1 expression is restricted to myofibroblasts, and a significant increase of naive macrophages is detected in STC1-high compared with STC1-low cases. This work increases our understanding of lung adenocarcinoma development and suggests new approaches for therapeutic targeting of the TME."	1
"32571880"	"Structural and functional conservation of the programmed -1 ribosomal frameshift signal of SARS coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).Approximately 17 years after the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) epidemic, the world is currently facing the COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS corona virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). According to the most optimistic projections, it will take more than a year to develop a vaccine, so the best short-term strategy may lie in identifying virus-specific targets for small molecule-based interventions. All coronaviruses utilize a molecular mechanism called programmed -1 ribosomal frameshift (-1 PRF) to control the relative expression of their proteins. Previous analyses of SARS-CoV have revealed that it employs a structurally unique three-stemmed mRNA pseudoknot that stimulates high -1 PRF rates and that it also harbors a -1 PRF attenuation element. Altering -1 PRF activity impairs virus replication, suggesting that this activity may be therapeutically targeted. Here, we comparatively analyzed the SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 frameshift signals. Structural and functional analyses revealed that both elements promote similar -1 PRF rates and that silent coding mutations in the slippery sites and in all three stems of the pseudoknot strongly ablate -1 PRF activity. We noted that the upstream attenuator hairpin activity is also functionally retained in both viruses, despite differences in the primary sequence in this region. Small-angle X-ray scattering analyses indicated that the pseudoknots in SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 have the same conformation. Finally, a small molecule previously shown to bind the SARS-CoV pseudoknot and inhibit -1 PRF was similarly effective against -1 PRF in SARS-CoV-2, suggesting that such frameshift inhibitors may be promising lead compounds to combat the current COVID-19 pandemic."	0
"31735643"	"Dynamic Regulation of ME1 Phosphorylation and Acetylation Affects Lipid Metabolism and Colorectal Tumorigenesis.PGAM5 is a mitochondrial serine/threonine phosphatase that regulates multiple metabolic pathways and contributes to tumorigenesis in a poorly understood manner. We show here that PGAM5 inhibition attenuates lipid metabolism and colorectal tumorigenesis in mice. PGAM5-mediated dephosphorylation of malic enzyme 1 (ME1) at S336 allows increased ACAT1-mediated K337 acetylation, leading to ME1 dimerization and activation, both of which are reversed by NEK1 kinase-mediated S336 phosphorylation. SIRT6 deacetylase antagonizes ACAT1 function in a manner that involves mutually exclusive ME1 S336 phosphorylation and K337 acetylation. ME1 also promotes nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) production, lipogenesis, and colorectal cancers in which ME1 transcripts are upregulated and ME1 protein is hypophosphorylated at S336 and hyperacetylated at K337. PGAM5 and ME1 upregulation occur via direct transcriptional activation mediated by β-catenin/TCF1. Thus, the balance between PGAM5-mediated dephosphorylation of ME1 S336 and ACAT1-mediated acetylation of K337 strongly influences NADPH generation, lipid metabolism, and the susceptibility to colorectal tumorigenesis."	1
"30712989"	"ELTA: Enzymatic Labeling of Terminal ADP-Ribose.ADP-ribosylation refers to the addition of one or more ADP-ribose groups onto proteins. The attached ADP-ribose monomers or polymers, commonly known as poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR), modulate the activities of the modified substrates or their binding affinities to other proteins. However, progress in this area is hindered by a lack of tools to investigate this protein modification. Here, we describe a new method named ELTA (enzymatic labeling of terminal ADP-ribose) for labeling free or protein-conjugated ADP-ribose monomers and polymers at their 2'-OH termini using the enzyme OAS1 and dATP. When coupled with various dATP analogs (e.g., radioactive, fluorescent, affinity tags), ELTA can be used to explore PAR biology with techniques routinely used to investigate DNA or RNA function. We demonstrate that ELTA enables the biophysical measurements of protein binding to PAR of a defined length, detection of PAR length from proteins and cells, and enrichment of sub-femtomole amounts of ADP-ribosylated peptides from cell lysates."	0
"32640217"	"Extracellular Granzyme A Promotes Colorectal Cancer Development by Enhancing Gut Inflammation.If not properly regulated, the inflammatory immune response can promote carcinogenesis, as evident in colorectal cancer (CRC). Aiming to gain mechanistic insight into the link between inflammation and CRC, we perform transcriptomics analysis of human CRC, identifying a strong correlation between expression of the serine protease granzyme A (GzmA) and inflammation. In a dextran sodium sulfate and azoxymethane (DSS/AOM) mouse model, deficiency and pharmacological inhibition of extracellular GzmA both attenuate gut inflammation and prevent CRC development, including the initial steps of cell transformation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, extracellular GzmA induces NF-κB-dependent IL-6 production in macrophages, which in turn promotes STAT3 activation in cultured CRC cells. Accordingly, colon tissues from DSS/AOM-treated, GzmA-deficient animals present reduced levels of pSTAT3. By identifying GzmA as a proinflammatory protease that promotes CRC development, these findings provide information on mechanisms that link immune cell infiltration to cancer progression and present GzmA as a therapeutic target for CRC."	1
"32268081"	"Insights into Gonadal Sex Differentiation Provided by Single-Cell Transcriptomics in the Chicken Embryo.Although the genetic triggers for gonadal sex differentiation vary across species, the cell biology of gonadal development was long thought to be largely conserved. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of gonadal sex differentiation, using single-cell sequencing in the embryonic chicken gonad during sexual differentiation. The data show that chicken embryonic-supporting cells do not derive from the coelomic epithelium, in contrast to other vertebrates studied. Instead, they derive from a DMRT1<sup>+</sup>/PAX2<sup>+</sup>/WNT4<sup>+</sup>/OSR1<sup>+</sup> mesenchymal cell population. We find a greater complexity of gonadal cell types than previously thought, including the identification of two distinct sub-populations of Sertoli cells in developing testes and derivation of embryonic steroidogenic cells from a differentiated supporting-cell lineage. Altogether, these results indicate that, just as the genetic trigger for sex differs across vertebrate groups, cell lineage specification in the gonad may also vary substantially."	0
"32518158"	"Structural analysis of avibactam-mediated activation of the bla and mec divergons in methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i>.Methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> (MRSA) infections cause significant mortality and morbidity globally. MRSA resistance to β-lactam antibiotics is mediated by two divergons that control levels of a β-lactamase, PC1, and a penicillin-binding protein poorly acylated by β-lactam antibiotics, PBP2a. Expression of genes encoding these proteins is controlled by two integral membrane proteins, BlaR1 and MecR1, which both have an extracellular β-lactam-binding sensor domain. Here, we solved the X-ray crystallographic structures of the BlaR1 and MecR1 sensor domains in complex with avibactam, a diazabicyclooctane β-lactamase inhibitor at 1.6-2.0 Å resolution. Additionally, we show that <i>S. aureus</i> SF8300, a clinically relevant strain from the USA300 clone of MRSA, responds to avibactam by up-regulating the expression of the <i>blaZ</i> and <i>pbp2a</i> antibiotic-resistance genes, encoding PC1 and PBP2a, respectively. The BlaR1-avibactam structure of the carbamoyl-enzyme intermediate revealed that avibactam is bound to the active-site serine in two orientations ∼180° to each other. Although a physiological role of the observed alternative pose remains to be validated, our structural results hint at the presence of a secondary sulfate-binding pocket that could be exploited in the design of future inhibitors of BlaR1/MecR1 sensor domains or the structurally similar class D β-lactamases. The MecR1-avibactam structure adopted a singular avibactam orientation similar to one of the two states observed in the BlaR1-avibactam structure. Given avibactam up-regulates expression of <i>blaZ</i> and <i>pbp2a</i> antibiotic resistance genes, we suggest further consideration and research is needed to explore what effects administering β-lactam-avibactam combinations have on treating MRSA infections."	0
"32075754"	"Sen1 Is Recruited to Replication Forks via Ctf4 and Mrc1 and Promotes Genome Stability.DNA replication and RNA transcription compete for the same substrate during S phase. Cells have evolved several mechanisms to minimize such conflicts. Here, we identify the mechanism by which the transcription termination helicase Sen1 associates with replisomes. We show that the N terminus of Sen1 is both sufficient and necessary for replisome association and that it binds to the replisome via the components Ctf4 and Mrc1. We generated a separation of function mutant, sen1-3, which abolishes replisome binding without affecting transcription termination. We observe that the sen1-3 mutants show increased genome instability and recombination levels. Moreover, sen1-3 is synthetically defective with mutations in genes involved in RNA metabolism and the S phase checkpoint. RNH1 overexpression suppresses defects in the former, but not the latter. These findings illustrate how Sen1 plays a key function at replication forks during DNA replication to promote fork progression and chromosome stability."	1
"31901447"	"Lipid Droplet-Derived Monounsaturated Fatty Acids Traffic via PLIN5 to Allosterically Activate SIRT1.Lipid droplets (LDs) provide a reservoir for triacylglycerol storage and are a central hub for fatty acid trafficking and signaling in cells. Lipolysis promotes mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism via a SIRT1/PGC-1α/PPARα-dependent pathway through an unknown mechanism. Herein, we identify that monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) allosterically activate SIRT1 toward select peptide-substrates such as PGC-1α. MUFAs enhance PGC-1α/PPARα signaling and promote oxidative metabolism in cells and animal models in a SIRT1-dependent manner. Moreover, we characterize the LD protein perilipin 5 (PLIN5), which is known to enhance mitochondrial biogenesis and function, to be a fatty-acid-binding protein that preferentially binds LD-derived monounsaturated fatty acids and traffics them to the nucleus following cAMP/PKA-mediated lipolytic stimulation. Thus, these studies identify the first-known endogenous allosteric modulators of SIRT1 and characterize a LD-nuclear signaling axis that underlies the known metabolic benefits of MUFAs and PLIN5."	1
"32726617"	"Cycling Stem Cells Are Radioresistant and Regenerate the Intestine.A certain number of epithelial cells in intestinal crypts are DNA damage resistant and contribute to regeneration. However, the cellular mechanism underlying intestinal regeneration remains unclear. Using lineage tracing, we show that cells marked by an Msi1 reporter (Msi1<sup>+</sup>) are right above Lgr5<sup>high</sup> cells in intestinal crypts and exhibit DNA damage resistance. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that the Msi1<sup>+</sup> cells are heterogeneous with the majority being intestinal stem cells (ISCs). The DNA damage-resistant subpopulation of Msi1<sup>+</sup> cells is characterized by low-to-negative Lgr5 expression and is more rapidly cycling than Lgr5<sup>high</sup> radiosensitive crypt base columnar stem cells (CBCs). This enables an efficient repopulation of the intestinal epithelium at early stage when Lgr5<sup>high</sup> cells are not emerging. Furthermore, relative to CBCs, Msi1<sup>+</sup> cells preferentially produce Paneth cells during homeostasis and upon radiation repair. Together, we demonstrate that the DNA damage-resistant Msi1<sup>+</sup> cells are cycling ISCs that maintain and regenerate the intestinal epithelium."	0
"32049008"	"Prebiotic-Induced Anti-tumor Immunity Attenuates Tumor Growth.Growing evidence supports the importance of gut microbiota in the control of tumor growth and response to therapy. Here, we select prebiotics that can enrich bacterial taxa that promote anti-tumor immunity. Addition of the prebiotics inulin or mucin to the diet of C57BL/6 mice induces anti-tumor immune responses and inhibition of BRAF mutant melanoma growth in a subcutaneously implanted syngeneic mouse model. Mucin fails to inhibit tumor growth in germ-free mice, indicating that the gut microbiota is required for the activation of the anti-tumor immune response. Inulin and mucin drive distinct changes in the microbiota, as inulin, but not mucin, limits tumor growth in syngeneic mouse models of colon cancer and NRAS mutant melanoma and enhances the efficacy of a MEK inhibitor against melanoma while delaying the emergence of drug resistance. We highlight the importance of gut microbiota in anti-tumor immunity and the potential therapeutic role for prebiotics in this process."	0
"32668245"	"ZIGIR, a Granule-Specific Zn<sup>2+</sup> Indicator, Reveals Human Islet α Cell Heterogeneity.Numerous mammalian cells contain abundant Zn<sup>2+</sup> in their secretory granules, yet available Zn<sup>2+</sup> sensors lack the desired specificity and sensitivity for imaging granular Zn<sup>2+</sup>. We developed a fluorescent zinc granule indicator, ZIGIR, that possesses numerous desired properties for live cell imaging, including >100-fold fluorescence enhancement, membrane permeability, and selective enrichment to acidic granules. The combined advantages endow ZIGIR with superior sensitivity and specificity for imaging granular Zn<sup>2+</sup>. ZIGIR enables separation of heterogenous β cells based on their insulin content and sorting of mouse islets into pure α cells and β cells. In human islets, ZIGIR facilitates sorting of endocrine cells into highly enriched α cells and β cells, reveals unexpectedly high Zn<sup>2+</sup> activity in the somatostatin granule of some δ cells, and uncovers variation in the glucagon content among human α cells. We expect broad applications of ZIGIR for studying Zn<sup>2+</sup> biology and Zn<sup>2+</sup>-rich secretory granules and for engineering β cells with high insulin content for treating diabetes."	0
"32521260"	"Kainate Receptor Activation Shapes Short-Term Synaptic Plasticity by Controlling Receptor Lateral Mobility at Glutamatergic Synapses.Kainate receptors (KARs) mediate postsynaptic currents with a key impact on neuronal excitability. However, the molecular determinants controlling KAR postsynaptic localization and stabilization are poorly understood. Here, we exploit optogenetic and single-particle tracking approaches to study the role of KAR conformational states induced by glutamate binding on KAR lateral mobility at synapses. We report that following glutamate binding, KARs are readily and reversibly trapped at glutamatergic synapses through increased interaction with the β-catenin/N-cadherin complex. We demonstrate that such activation-dependent synaptic immobilization of KARs is crucial for the modulation of short-term plasticity of glutamatergic synapses. Thus, the present study unveils the crosstalk between conformational states and lateral mobility of KARs, a mechanism regulating glutamatergic signaling, particularly in conditions of sustained synaptic activity."	0
"32603710"	"The Histone Chaperone FACT Induces Cas9 Multi-turnover Behavior and Modifies Genome Manipulation in Human Cells.Cas9 is a prokaryotic RNA-guided DNA endonuclease that binds substrates tightly in vitro but turns over rapidly when used to manipulate genomes in eukaryotic cells. Little is known about the factors responsible for dislodging Cas9 or how they influence genome engineering. Unbiased detection through proximity labeling of transient protein interactions in cell-free Xenopus laevis egg extract identified the dimeric histone chaperone facilitates chromatin transcription (FACT) as an interactor of substrate-bound Cas9. FACT is both necessary and sufficient to displace dCas9, and FACT immunodepletion converts Cas9's activity from multi-turnover to single turnover. In human cells, FACT depletion extends dCas9 residence times, delays genome editing, and alters the balance between indel formation and homology-directed repair. FACT knockdown also increases epigenetic marking by dCas9-based transcriptional effectors with a concomitant enhancement of transcriptional modulation. FACT thus shapes the intrinsic cellular response to Cas9-based genome manipulation most likely by determining Cas9 residence times."	0
"32649882"	"Tandem Deubiquitination and Acetylation of SPRTN Promotes DNA-Protein Crosslink Repair and Protects against Aging.DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are highly toxic DNA lesions that threaten genomic integrity. Recent findings highlight that SPRTN, a specialized DNA-dependent metalloprotease, is a central player in proteolytic cleavage of DPCs. Previous studies suggest that SPRTN deubiquitination is important for its chromatin association and activation. However, the regulation and consequences of SPRTN deubiquitination remain unclear. Here we report that, in response to DPC induction, the deubiquitinase VCPIP1/VCIP135 is phosphorylated and activated by ATM/ATR. VCPIP1, in turn, deubiquitinates SPRTN and promotes its chromatin relocalization. Deubiquitination of SPRTN is required for its subsequent acetylation, which promotes SPRTN relocation to the site of chromatin damage. Furthermore, Vcpip1 knockout mice are prone to genomic instability and premature aging. We propose a model where two sequential post-translational modifications (PTMs) regulate SPRTN chromatin accessibility to repair DPCs and maintain genomic stability and a healthy lifespan."	1
"32610137"	"Promiscuous Binding of Microprotein Mozart1 to γ-Tubulin Complex Mediates Specific Subcellular Targeting to Control Microtubule Array Formation.How γ-tubulin ring complex (γ-TuRC), a master template for microtubule nucleation, is spatially and temporally regulated for the assembly of new microtubule arrays remains unclear. Here, we report that an evolutionarily conserved microprotein, Mozart1 (Mzt1), regulates subcellular targeting and microtubule formation activity of γ-TuRC at different cell cycle stages. Crystal structures of protein complexes demonstrate that Mzt1 promiscuously interacts with the N-terminal domains of multiple γ-tubulin complex protein subunits in γ-TuRC via an intercalative binding mode. Genetic- and microscopy-based analyses show that promiscuous binding of Mzt1 in γ-TuRC controls specific subcellular localization of γ-TuRC to modulate microtubule nucleation and stabilization in fission yeast. Moreover, we find Mzt1-independent targeting of γ-TuRC to be crucial for mitotic spindle assembly, demonstrating the cell-cycle-dependent regulation and function of γ-TuRC. Our findings reveal a microprotein-mediated regulatory mechanism underlying microtubule cytoskeleton formation, whereby Mzt1 binding promiscuity confers localization specificity on the multi-protein complex γ-TuRC."	0
"32348770"	"Id1 and Id3 Maintain Steady-State Hematopoiesis by Promoting Sinusoidal Endothelial Cell Survival and Regeneration.Investigating mechanisms that regulate endothelial cell (EC) growth and survival is important for understanding EC homeostasis and how ECs maintain stem cell niches. We report here that targeted loss of Id genes in adult ECs results in dilated, leaky sinusoids and a pro-inflammatory state that increases in severity over time. Disruption in sinusoidal integrity leads to increased hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) proliferation, differentiation, migration, and exhaustion. Mechanistically, sinusoidal ECs (SECs) show increased apoptosis because of reduced Bcl2-family gene expression following Id gene ablation. Furthermore, Id1<sup>-/-</sup>Id3<sup>-/-</sup> SECs and upstream type H vessels show increased expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p21 and p27 and impaired ability to proliferate, which is rescued by reducing E2-2 expression. Id1<sup>-/-</sup>Id3<sup>-/-</sup> mice do not survive sublethal irradiation because of impaired vessel regeneration and hematopoietic failure. Thus, Id genes are required for the survival and regeneration of BM SECs during homeostasis and stress to maintain HSC development."	0
"32187546"	"β-Amyloid Clustering around ASC Fibrils Boosts Its Toxicity in Microglia.Alzheimer's disease is the world's most common neurodegenerative disorder. It is associated with neuroinflammation involving activation of microglia by β-amyloid (Aβ) deposits. Based on previous studies showing apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD (ASC) binding and cross-seeding extracellular Aβ, we investigate the propagation of ASC between primary microglia and the effects of ASC-Aβ composites on microglial inflammasomes and function. Indeed, ASC released by a pyroptotic cell can be functionally built into the neighboring microglia NOD-like receptor protein (NLRP3) inflammasome. Compared with protein-only application, exposure to ASC-Aβ composites amplifies the proinflammatory response, resulting in pyroptotic cell death, setting free functional ASC and inducing a feedforward stimulating vicious cycle. Clustering around ASC fibrils also compromises clearance of Aβ by microglia. Together, these data enable a closer look at the turning point from acute to chronic Aβ-related neuroinflammation through formation of ASC-Aβ composites."	0
"32464093"	"Insulin- and Lipopolysaccharide-Mediated Signaling in Adipose Tissue Macrophages Regulates Postprandial Glycemia through Akt-mTOR Activation.The physiological role of immune cells in the regulation of postprandial glucose metabolism has not been fully elucidated. We have found that adipose tissue macrophages produce interleukin-10 (IL-10) upon feeding, which suppresses hepatic glucose production in cooperation with insulin. Both elevated insulin and gut-microbiome-derived lipopolysaccharide in response to feeding are required for IL-10 production via the Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. Indeed, myeloid-specific knockout of the insulin receptor or bone marrow transplantation of mutant TLR4 marrow cells results in increased expression of gluconeogenic genes and impaired glucose tolerance. Furthermore, myeloid-specific Akt1 and Akt2 knockout results in similar phenotypes that are rescued by additional knockout of TSC2, an inhibitor of mTOR. In obesity, IL-10 production is impaired due to insulin resistance in macrophages, whereas adenovirus-mediated expression of IL-10 ameliorates postprandial hyperglycemia. Thus, the orchestrated response of the endogenous hormone and gut environment to feeding is a key regulator of postprandial glycemia."	0
"31027879"	"Coordinated Conformational Processing of the Tumor Suppressor Protein p53 by the Hsp70 and Hsp90 Chaperone Machineries.p53, the guardian of the genome, requires chaperoning by Hsp70 and Hsp90. However, how the two chaperone machineries affect p53 conformation and regulate its function remains elusive. We found that Hsp70, together with Hsp40, unfolds p53 in an ATP-dependent reaction. This unfolded state of p53 is susceptible to aggregation after release induced by the nucleotide exchange factor Bag-1. However, when Hsp90 and the adaptor protein Hop are present, p53 is transferred from Hsp70 to Hsp90, allowing restoration of the native state upon ATP hydrolysis. Our results suggest that the p53 conformation is constantly remodeled by the two major chaperone machineries. This connects p53 activity to stress, and the levels of free molecular chaperones are important factors regulating p53 activity. Together, our findings reveal an intricate interplay and cooperation of Hsp70 and Hsp90 in regulating the conformation of a client."	1
"32231309"	"KDM4A regulates the maternal-to-zygotic transition by protecting broad H3K4me3 domains from H3K9me3 invasion in oocytes.The importance of germline-inherited post-translational histone modifications on priming early mammalian development is just emerging<sup>1-4</sup>. Histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9) trimethylation is associated with heterochromatin and gene repression during cell-fate change<sup>5</sup>, whereas histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) trimethylation marks active gene promoters<sup>6</sup>. Mature oocytes are transcriptionally quiescent and possess remarkably broad domains of H3K4me3 (bdH3K4me3)<sup>1,2</sup>. It is unknown which factors contribute to the maintenance of the bdH3K4me3 landscape. Lysine-specific demethylase 4A (KDM4A) demethylates H3K9me3 at promoters marked by H3K4me3 in actively transcribing somatic cells<sup>7</sup>. Here, we report that KDM4A-mediated H3K9me3 demethylation at bdH3K4me3 in oocytes is crucial for normal pre-implantation development and zygotic genome activation after fertilization. The loss of KDM4A in oocytes causes aberrant H3K9me3 spreading over bdH3K4me3, resulting in insufficient transcriptional activation of genes, endogenous retroviral elements and chimeric transcripts initiated from long terminal repeats during zygotic genome activation. The catalytic activity of KDM4A is essential for normal epigenetic reprogramming and pre-implantation development. Hence, KDM4A plays a crucial role in preserving the maternal epigenome integrity required for proper zygotic genome activation and transfer of developmental control to the embryo."	0
"32780989"	"GIT/PIX Condensates Are Modular and Ideal for Distinct Compartmentalized Cell Signaling.Enzymes or enzyme complexes can be concentrated in different cellular loci to modulate distinct functional processes in response to specific signals. How cells condense and compartmentalize enzyme complexes for spatiotemporally distinct cellular events is not well understood. Here we discover that specific and tight association of GIT1 and β-Pix, a pair of GTPase regulatory enzymes, leads to phase separation of the complex without additional scaffolding molecules. GIT1/β-Pix condensates are modular in nature and can be positioned at distinct cellular compartments, such as neuronal synapses, focal adhesions, and cell-cell junctions, by upstream adaptors. Guided by the structure of the GIT/PIX complex, we specifically probed the role of phase separation of the enzyme complex in cell migration and synapse formation. Our study suggests that formation of modular enzyme complex condensates via phase separation can dynamically concentrate limited quantities of enzymes to distinct cellular compartments for specific and optimal signaling."	1
"32587090"	"The WD40-repeat protein WDR-48 promotes the stability of the deubiquitinating enzyme USP-46 by inhibiting its ubiquitination and degradation.Ubiquitination is a reversible post-translational modification that has emerged as a critical regulator of synapse development and function. However, the mechanisms that regulate the deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) responsible for the removal of ubiquitin from target proteins are poorly understood. We have previously shown that the DUB ubiquitin-specific protease 46 (USP-46) removes ubiquitin from the glutamate receptor GLR-1 and regulates its trafficking and degradation in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> We found that the WD40-repeat proteins WDR-20 and WDR-48 bind and stimulate the catalytic activity of USP-46. Here, we identified another mechanism by which WDR-48 regulates USP-46. We found that increased expression of WDR-48, but not WDR-20, promotes USP-46 abundance in mammalian cells in culture and in <i>C. elegans</i> neurons <i>in vivo</i> Inhibition of the proteasome increased USP-46 abundance, and this effect was nonadditive with increased WDR-48 expression. We found that USP-46 is ubiquitinated and that expression of WDR-48 reduces the levels of ubiquitin-USP-46 conjugates and increases the <i>t</i><sub>1/2</sub> of USP-46. A point-mutated WDR-48 variant that disrupts binding to USP-46 was unable to promote USP-46 abundance <i>in vivo</i> Finally, siRNA-mediated knockdown of <i>wdr48</i> destabilizes USP46 in mammalian cells. Together, these results support a model in which WDR-48 binds and stabilizes USP-46 protein levels by preventing the ubiquitination and degradation of USP-46 in the proteasome. Given that a large number of USPs interact with WDR proteins, we propose that stabilization of DUBs by their interacting WDR proteins may be a conserved and widely used mechanism that controls DUB availability and function."	1
"32075757"	"A Dynamic Folded Hairpin Conformation Is Associated with α-Globin Activation in Erythroid Cells.We investigate the three-dimensional (3D) conformations of the α-globin locus at the single-allele level in murine embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and erythroid cells, combining polymer physics models and high-resolution Capture-C data. Model predictions are validated against independent fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) data measuring pairwise distances, and Tri-C data identifying three-way contacts. The architecture is rearranged during the transition from ESCs to erythroid cells, associated with the activation of the globin genes. We find that in ESCs, the spatial organization conforms to a highly intermingled 3D structure involving non-specific contacts, whereas in erythroid cells the α-globin genes and their enhancers form a self-contained domain, arranged in a folded hairpin conformation, separated from intermingling flanking regions by a thermodynamic mechanism of micro-phase separation. The flanking regions are rich in convergent CTCF sites, which only marginally participate in the erythroid-specific gene-enhancer contacts, suggesting that beyond the interaction of CTCF sites, multiple molecular mechanisms cooperate to form an interacting domain."	0
"32698007"	"Degradation of Non-coding RNAs Promotes Recycling of Termination Factors at Sites of Transcription.A large share of the non-coding transcriptome in yeast is controlled by the Nrd1-Nab3-Sen1 (NNS) complex, which promotes transcription termination of non-coding RNA (ncRNA) genes, and by the nuclear exosome, which limits the steady-state levels of the transcripts produced. How unconstrained ncRNA levels affect RNA metabolism and gene expression are long-standing and important questions. Here, we show that degradation of ncRNAs by the exosome is required for freeing Nrd1 and Nab3 from the released transcript after termination. In exosome mutants, these factors are sequestered by ncRNAs and cannot be efficiently recycled to sites of transcription, inducing termination defects at NNS targets. ncRNA-dependent, genome-wide termination defects can be recapitulated by the expression of a degradation-resistant, circular RNA containing a natural NNS target in exosome-proficient cells. Our results have important implications for the mechanism of termination, the general impact of ncRNAs abundance, and the importance of nuclear ncRNA degradation."	0
"31812350"	"Targeting UBE4A Revives Viperin Protein in Epithelium to Enhance Host Antiviral Defense.Mutation and prevalence of pathogenic viruses prompt the development of broad-spectrum antiviral strategies. Viperin is a potent antiviral protein that inhibits a broad range of viruses. Unexpectedly, we found that Viperin protein production in epithelium is defective in response to both viruses and interferons (IFNs). We further revealed that viruses and IFNs stimulate expression of the acetyltransferase HAT1, which induces Lys197-acetylation on Viperin. Viperin acetylation in turn recruits UBE4A that stimulates K6-linked polyubiquitination at Lys206 of Viperin, leading to Viperin protein degradation. Importantly, UBE4A deficiency restores Viperin protein production in epithelium. We then designed interfering peptides (IPs) to inhibit UBE4A binding with Viperin. We found that VIP-IP3 rescues Viperin protein production in epithelium and therefore enhances cellular antiviral activity. VIP-IP3 renders mice more resistant to viral infection. These findings could provide strategies for both enhancing host broad-spectrum antiviral response and improving the efficacy of IFN-based antiviral therapy."	1
"31029541"	"Synergy between Variant PRC1 Complexes Defines Polycomb-Mediated Gene Repression.The Polycomb system modifies chromatin and plays an essential role in repressing gene expression to control normal mammalian development. However, the components and mechanisms that define how Polycomb protein complexes achieve this remain enigmatic. Here, we use combinatorial genetic perturbation coupled with quantitative genomics to discover the central determinants of Polycomb-mediated gene repression in mouse embryonic stem cells. We demonstrate that canonical Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1), which mediates higher-order chromatin structures, contributes little to gene repression. Instead, we uncover an unexpectedly high degree of synergy between variant PRC1 complexes, which is fundamental to gene repression. We further demonstrate that variant PRC1 complexes are responsible for distinct pools of H2A monoubiquitylation that are associated with repression of Polycomb target genes and silencing during X chromosome inactivation. Together, these discoveries reveal a new variant PRC1-dependent logic for Polycomb-mediated gene repression."	0
"32160543"	"MYC Dysregulates Mitosis, Revealing Cancer Vulnerabilities.Tumors that overexpress the MYC oncogene are frequently aneuploid, a state associated with highly aggressive cancers and tumor evolution. However, how MYC causes aneuploidy is not well understood. Here, we show that MYC overexpression induces mitotic spindle assembly defects and chromosomal instability (CIN) through effects on microtubule nucleation and organization. Attenuating MYC expression reverses mitotic defects, even in established tumor cell lines, indicating an ongoing role for MYC in CIN. MYC reprograms mitotic gene expression, and we identify TPX2 to be permissive for spindle assembly in MYC-high cells. TPX2 depletion blocks mitotic progression, induces cell death, and prevents tumor growth. Further elevating TPX2 expression reduces mitotic defects in MYC-high cells. MYC and TPX2 expression may be useful biomarkers to stratify patients for anti-mitotic therapies. Our studies implicate MYC as a regulator of mitosis and suggest that blocking MYC activity can attenuate the emergence of CIN and tumor evolution."	0
"32209468"	"The Absence of HIF-1α Increases Susceptibility to Leishmania donovani Infection via Activation of BNIP3/mTOR/SREBP-1c Axis.Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α) is considered a global regulator of cellular metabolism and innate immune cell functions. Intracellular pathogens such as Leishmania have been reported to manipulate host cell metabolism. Herein, we demonstrate that myeloid cells from myeloid-restricted HIF-1α-deficient mice and individuals with loss-of-function HIF1A gene polymorphisms are more susceptible to L. donovani infection through increased lipogenesis. Absence of HIF-1α leads to a defect in BNIP3 expression, resulting in the activation of mTOR and nuclear translocation of SREBP-1c. We observed the induction of lipogenic gene transcripts, such as FASN, and lipid accumulation in infected HIF-1α<sup>-/-</sup> macrophages. L. donovani-infected HIF-1α-deficient mice develop hypertriglyceridemia and lipid accumulation in splenic and hepatic myeloid cells. Most importantly, our data demonstrate that manipulating FASN or SREBP-1c using pharmacological inhibitors significantly reduced parasite burden. As such, genetic deficiency of HIF-1α is associated with increased lipid accumulation, which results in impaired host-protective anti-leishmanial functions of myeloid cells."	0
"32726623"	"Acetylation of UHRF1 Regulates Hemi-methylated DNA Binding and Maintenance of Genome-wide DNA Methylation.UHRF1 is a key regulator in DNA methylation maintenance. It binds histone H3K9me2/3 and hemi-methylated DNA and recruits DNMT1 to DNA replication forks during S phase. However, the regulatory mechanism of hemi-methylated DNA binding activity of UHRF1 remains unknown. In this study, we reveal that acetylation of UHRF1 is regulated by PCAF and HDAC1. We show that UHRF1 acetylation at K490 attenuates its binding affinity to hemi-methylated DNA. We analyze genome-wide DNA methylation and gene-expression patterns using stable cell lines and discover that cells where the endogenous UHRF1 is replaced with an acetyl-mimetic (UHRF1 K490Q) mutant show deficiencies in inherited DNA methylation and show different gene-expression patterns in genes related to cell survival. These results reveal that precise regulation of UHRF1 acetylation is required to maintain DNA methylation during cell division and control cell survival."	1
"32209481"	"c-Src Promotes Tumorigenesis and Tumor Progression by Activating PFKFB3.Reprogramming of glucose metabolism is a key event in tumorigenesis and progression. Here, we show that active c-Src stimulates glycolysis by phosphorylating (Tyr194) and activating PFKFB3, a key enzyme that boosts glycolysis by producing fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and activating PFK1. Increased glycolysis intermediates replenish non-oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) and serine pathway for biosynthesis of cancer cells. PFKFB3 knockout (KO) cells and their counterpart reconstituted with PFKFB3-Y194F show comparably impaired abilities for proliferation, migration, and xenograft formation. Furthermore, PFKFB3-Y194F knockin mice show impaired glycolysis and, mating of these mice with APC<sup>min/+</sup> mice attenuates spontaneous colon cancer formation in APC<sup>min/+</sup> mice. In summary, we identify a specific mechanism by which c-Src mediates glucose metabolism to meet cancer cells' requirements for maximal biosynthesis and proliferation. The PFKFB3-Tyr194 phosphorylation level highly correlates with c-Src activity in clinical tumor samples, indicating its potential as an evaluation for tumor prognosis."	1
"31831627"	"Induction of AP-1 by YAP/TAZ contributes to cell proliferation and organ growth.Yes-associated protein (YAP) and its homolog transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) are key effectors of the Hippo pathway to control cell growth and organ size, of which dysregulation yields to tumorigenesis or hypertrophy. Upon activation, YAP/TAZ translocate into the nucleus and bind to TEAD transcription factors to promote transcriptional programs for proliferation or cell specification. Immediate early genes, represented by AP-1 complex, are rapidly induced and control later-phase transcriptional program to play key roles in tumorigenesis and organ maintenance. Here, we report that YAP/TAZ directly promote <i>FOS</i> transcription that in turn contributes to the biological function of YAP/TAZ. YAP/TAZ bind to the promoter region of <i>FOS</i> to stimulate its transcription. Deletion of YAP/TAZ blocks the induction of immediate early genes in response to mitogenic stimuli. <i>FOS</i> induction contributes to expression of YAP/TAZ downstream target genes. Genetic deletion or chemical inhibition of AP-1 suppresses growth of YAP-driven cancer cells, such as <i>Lats1/2</i>-deficient cancer cells as well as Gα<sub>q/11</sub> mutated uveal melanoma. Furthermore, AP-1 inhibition almost completely abrogates the hepatomegaly induced by YAP overexpression. Our findings reveal a feed-forward interplay between immediate early transcription of AP-1 and Hippo pathway function."	1
"32209458"	"Multi-scale Predictions of Drug Resistance Epidemiology Identify Design Principles for Rational Drug Design.Rationally designing drugs that last longer in the face of biological evolution is a critical objective of drug discovery. However, this goal is thwarted by the diversity and stochasticity of evolutionary trajectories that drive uncertainty in the clinic. Although biophysical models can qualitatively predict whether a mutation causes resistance, they cannot quantitatively predict the relative abundance of resistance mutations in patient populations. We present stochastic, first-principle models that are parameterized on a large in vitro dataset and that accurately predict the epidemiological abundance of resistance mutations across multiple leukemia clinical trials. The ability to forecast resistance variants requires an understanding of their underlying mutation biases. Beyond leukemia, a meta-analysis across prostate cancer, breast cancer, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors suggests that resistance evolution in the adjuvant setting is influenced by mutational bias. Our analysis establishes a principle for rational drug design: when evolution favors the most probable mutant, so should drug design."	0
"32187547"	"Mapping Polyclonal Antibody Responses in Non-human Primates Vaccinated with HIV Env Trimer Subunit Vaccines.Rational immunogen design aims to focus antibody responses to vulnerable sites on primary antigens. Given the size of these antigens, there is, however, potential for eliciting unwanted, off-target responses. Here, we use our electron microscopy polyclonal epitope mapping approach to describe the antibody specificities elicited by immunization of non-human primates with soluble HIV envelope trimers and subsequent repeated viral challenge. An increased diversity of epitopes recognized and the approach angle by which these antibodies bind constitute a hallmark of the humoral response in most protected animals. We also show that fusion peptide-specific antibodies are likely responsible for some neutralization breadth. Moreover, cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) analysis of a fully protected animal reveals a high degree of clonality within a subset of putatively neutralizing antibodies, enabling a detailed molecular description of the antibody paratope. Our results provide important insights into the immune response against a vaccine candidate that entered into clinical trials in 2019."	0
"31732457"	"Regulation of Phosphoribosyl-Linked Serine Ubiquitination by Deubiquitinases DupA and DupB.The family of bacterial SidE enzymes catalyzes non-canonical phosphoribosyl-linked (PR) serine ubiquitination and promotes infectivity of Legionella pneumophila. Here, we describe identification of two bacterial effectors that reverse PR ubiquitination and are thus named deubiquitinases for PR ubiquitination (DUPs; DupA and DupB). Structural analyses revealed that DupA and SidE ubiquitin ligases harbor a highly homologous catalytic phosphodiesterase (PDE) domain. However, unlike SidE ubiquitin ligases, DupA displays increased affinity to PR-ubiquitinated substrates, which allows DupA to cleave PR ubiquitin from substrates. Interfering with DupA-ubiquitin binding switches its activity toward SidE-type ligase. Given the high affinity of DupA to PR-ubiquitinated substrates, we exploited a catalytically inactive DupA mutant to trap and identify more than 180 PR-ubiquitinated host proteins in Legionella-infected cells. Proteins involved in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) fragmentation and membrane recruitment to Legionella-containing vacuoles (LCV) emerged as major SidE targets. The global map of PR-ubiquitinated substrates provides critical insights into host-pathogen interactions during Legionella infection."	0
"31420216"	"Estrogen-Related Hormones Induce Apoptosis by Stabilizing Schlafen-12 Protein Turnover.The mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis is controlled by the ratio of anti- and pro-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins. The molecular events underlying how a given physiological stimulus changes this ratio to trigger apoptosis remains unclear. We report here that human 17-β-estradiol (E2) and its related steroid hormones induce apoptosis by binding directly to phosphodiesterase 3A, which in turn recruits and stabilizes an otherwise fast-turnover protein Schlafen 12 (SLFN12). The elevated SLFN12 binds to ribosomes to exclude the recruitment of signal recognition particles (SRPs), thereby blocking the continuous protein translation occurring on the endoplasmic reticulum of E2-treated cells. These proteins include Bcl-2 and Mcl-1, whose ensuing decrease triggers apoptosis. The SLFN12 protein and an apoptosis activation marker were co-localized in syncytiotrophoblast of human placentas, where levels of estrogen-related hormones are high, and dynamic cell turnover by apoptosis is critical for successful implantation and placenta development."	1
"32521259"	"Computationally Guided Intracerebral Drug Delivery via Chronically Implanted Microdevices.Treatments for neurologic diseases are often limited in efficacy due to poor spatial and temporal control over their delivery. Intracerebral delivery partially overcomes this by directly infusing therapeutics to the brain. Brain structures, however, are nonuniform and irregularly shaped, precluding complete target coverage by a single bolus without significant off-target effects and possible toxicity. Nearly complete coverage is crucial for effective modulation of these structures. We present a framework with computational mapping algorithms for neural drug delivery (COMMAND) to guide multi-bolus targeting of brain structures that maximizes coverage and minimizes off-target leakage. Custom-fabricated chronic neural implants leverage rational fluidic design to achieve multi-bolus delivery in rodents through a single infusion of radioactive tracer (Cu-64). The resulting spatial distributions replicate computed spatial coverage with 5% error in vivo, as detected by positron emission tomography. COMMAND potentially enables accurate, efficacious targeting of discrete brain regions."	0
"32814043"	"Proteolytic Restriction of Chordin Range Underlies BMP Gradient Formation.A fundamental question in developmental biology is how morphogens, such as bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), form precise signaling gradients to impart positional and functional identity to the cells of the early embryo. We combine rigorous mutant analyses with quantitative immunofluorescence to determine that the proteases Bmp1a and Tolloid spatially restrict the BMP antagonist Chordin in dorsoventral (DV) axial patterning of the early zebrafish gastrula. We show that maternally deposited Bmp1a plays an unexpected and non-redundant role in establishing the BMP signaling gradient, while the Bmp1a/Tolloid antagonist Sizzled is surprisingly dispensable. Combining computational modeling and in vivo analyses with an immobile Chordin construct, we demonstrate that long-range Chordin diffusion is not necessary for BMP gradient formation and DV patterning. Our data do not support a counter-gradient of Chordin and instead favor a Chordin sink, established by Bmp1a and Tolloid, as the primary mechanism that drives BMP gradient formation."	1
"32697984"	"RSK2 Maintains Adult Estrogen Homeostasis by Inhibiting ERK1/2-Mediated Degradation of Estrogen Receptor Alpha.In response to estrogens, estrogen receptor alpha (ERα), a critical regulator of homeostasis, is degraded through the 26S proteasome. However, despite the continued presence of estrogen before menopause, ERα protein levels are maintained. We discovered that ERK1/2-RSK2 activity oscillates during the estrous cycle. In response to high estrogen levels, ERK1/2 is activated and phosphorylates ERα to drive ERα degradation and estrogen-responsive gene expression. Reduction of estrogen levels results in ERK1/2 deactivation. RSK2 maintains redox homeostasis, which prevents sustained ERK1/2 activation. In juveniles, ERK1/2-RSK2 activity is not required. Mammary gland regeneration demonstrates that ERK1/2-RSK2 regulation of ERα is intrinsic to the epithelium. Reduced RSK2 and enrichment in an estrogen-regulated gene signature occur in individuals taking oral contraceptives. RSK2 loss enhances DNA damage, which may account for the elevated breast cancer risk with the use of exogenous estrogens. These findings implicate RSK2 as a critical component for the preservation of estrogen homeostasis."	1
"32006464"	"Localized Inhibition of Protein Phosphatase 1 by NUAK1 Promotes Spliceosome Activity and Reveals a MYC-Sensitive Feedback Control of Transcription.Deregulated expression of MYC induces a dependence on the NUAK1 kinase, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this dependence have not been fully clarified. Here, we show that NUAK1 is a predominantly nuclear protein that associates with a network of nuclear protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) interactors and that PNUTS, a nuclear regulatory subunit of PP1, is phosphorylated by NUAK1. Both NUAK1 and PNUTS associate with the splicing machinery. Inhibition of NUAK1 abolishes chromatin association of PNUTS, reduces spliceosome activity, and suppresses nascent RNA synthesis. Activation of MYC does not bypass the requirement for NUAK1 for spliceosome activity but significantly attenuates transcription inhibition. Consequently, NUAK1 inhibition in MYC-transformed cells induces global accumulation of RNAPII both at the pause site and at the first exon-intron boundary but does not increase mRNA synthesis. We suggest that NUAK1 inhibition in the presence of deregulated MYC traps non-productive RNAPII because of the absence of correctly assembled spliceosomes."	1
"31784360"	"MeCP2 Represses Enhancers through Chromosome Topology-Associated DNA Methylation.The genomes of mammalian neurons contain uniquely high levels of non-CG DNA methylation that can be bound by the Rett syndrome protein, MeCP2, to regulate gene expression. How patterns of non-CG methylation are established in neurons and the mechanism by which this methylation works with MeCP2 to control gene expression is unclear. Here, we find that genes repressed by MeCP2 are often located within megabase-scale regions of high non-CG methylation that correspond with topologically associating domains of chromatin folding. MeCP2 represses enhancers found in these domains that are enriched for non-CG and CG methylation, with the strongest repression occurring for enhancers located within MeCP2-repressed genes. These alterations in enhancer activity provide a mechanism for how MeCP2 disruption in disease can lead to widespread changes in gene expression. Hence, we find that DNA topology can shape non-CG DNA methylation across the genome to dictate MeCP2-mediated enhancer regulation in the brain."	0
"31919188"	"The chromatin remodeler Snf2h is essential for oocyte meiotic cell cycle progression.Oocytes are indispensable for mammalian life. Thus, it is important to understand how mature oocytes are generated. As a critical stage of oocytes development, meiosis has been extensively studied, yet how chromatin remodeling contributes to this process is largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor Snf2h (also known as Smarca5) plays a critical role in regulating meiotic cell cycle progression. Females with oocyte-specific depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> are infertile and oocytes lacking <i>Snf2h</i> fail to undergo meiotic resumption. Mechanistically, depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> results in dysregulation of meiosis-related genes, which causes failure of maturation-promoting factor (MPF) activation. ATAC-seq analysis in oocytes revealed that Snf2h regulates transcription of key meiotic genes, such as <i>Prkar2b</i>, by increasing its promoter chromatin accessibility. Thus, our studies not only demonstrate the importance of Snf2h in oocyte meiotic resumption, but also reveal the mechanism underlying how a chromatin remodeling factor can regulate oocyte meiosis."	1
"32049023"	"SENP3 Suppresses Osteoclastogenesis by De-conjugating SUMO2/3 from IRF8 in Bone Marrow-Derived Monocytes.Bone metabolism depends on the balance between osteoclast-driven bone resorption and osteoblast-mediated bone formation. Diseases like osteoporosis are characterized by increased bone destruction due to partially enhanced osteoclastogenesis. Here, we report that the post-translational SUMO modification is critical for regulating osteoclastogenesis. The expression of the SUMO-specific protease SENP3 is downregulated in osteoclast precursors during osteoclast differentiation. Mice with SENP3 deficiency in bone marrow-derived monocytes (BMDMs) exhibit more severe bone loss due to over-activation of osteoclasts after ovariectomy. Deleting SENP3 in BMDMs promotes osteoclast differentiation. Mechanistically, loss of SENP3 increases interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) SUMO3 modification at the K310 amino acid site, which upregulates expression of the nuclear factor of activated T cell c1 (NFATc1) and osteoclastogenesis. In summary, IRF8 de-SUMO modification mediated by SENP3 suppresses osteoclast differentiation and suggests strategies to treat bone loss diseases."	1
"32367045"	"Bridging naïve and primed pluripotency."	0
"30612879"	"The Crohn's Disease Risk Factor IRGM Limits NLRP3 Inflammasome Activation by Impeding Its Assembly and by Mediating Its Selective Autophagy.Several large-scale genome-wide association studies genetically linked IRGM to Crohn's disease and other inflammatory disorders in which the IRGM appears to have a protective function. However, the mechanism by which IRGM accomplishes this anti-inflammatory role remains unclear. Here, we reveal that IRGM/Irgm1 is a negative regulator of the NLRP3 inflammasome activation. We show that IRGM expression, which is increased by PAMPs, DAMPs, and microbes, can suppress the pro-inflammatory responses provoked by the same stimuli. IRGM/Irgm1 negatively regulates IL-1β maturation by suppressing the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. Mechanistically, we show that IRGM interacts with NLRP3 and ASC and hinders inflammasome assembly by blocking their oligomerization. Further, IRGM mediates selective autophagic degradation of NLRP3 and ASC. By suppressing inflammasome activation, IRGM/Irgm1 protects from pyroptosis and gut inflammation in a Crohn's disease experimental mouse model. This study for the first time identifies the mechanism by which IRGM is protective against inflammatory disorders."	1
"31940480"	"Dual RNA-Seq of Mtb-Infected Macrophages In Vivo Reveals Ontologically Distinct Host-Pathogen Interactions.Dissecting the in vivo host-pathogen interplay is crucial to understanding the molecular mechanisms governing control or progression of intracellular infections. In this work, we explore the in vivo molecular dynamics of Mtb infection by performing dual RNA-seq on Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected, ontogenetically distinct macrophage lineages isolated directly from murine lungs. We first define an in vivo signature of 180 genes specifically upregulated by Mtb in mouse lung macrophages, then we uncover a divergent transcriptional response of the bacteria between alveolar macrophages that appear to sustain Mtb growth through increased access to iron and fatty acids and interstitial macrophages that restrict Mtb growth through iron sequestration and higher levels of nitric oxide. We use an enrichment protocol for bacterial transcripts, which enables us to probe Mtb physiology at the host cell level in an in vivo environment, with broader application in understanding the infection dynamics of intracellular pathogens in general."	0
"32354837"	"4E-T-bound mRNAs are stored in a silenced and deadenylated form.Human 4E-T is an eIF4E-binding protein (4E-BP) present in processing (P)-bodies that represses translation and regulates decay of mRNAs destabilized by AU-rich elements and microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we show that upon mRNA binding 4E-T represses translation and promotes deadenylation via the recruitment of the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. The interaction with CCR4-NOT is mediated by previously uncharacterized sites in the middle region of 4E-T. Importantly, mRNA decapping and decay are inhibited by 4E-T and the deadenylated target is stored in a repressed form. Inhibition of mRNA decapping requires the interaction of 4E-T with the cap-binding proteins eIF4E/4EHP. We further show that regulation of decapping by 4E-T participates in mRNA repression by the miRNA effector protein TNRC6B and that 4E-T overexpression interferes with tristetraprolin (TTP)- and NOT1-mediated mRNA decay. Thus, we postulate that 4E-T modulates 5'-to-3' decay by swapping the fate of a deadenylated mRNA from complete degradation to storage. Our results provide insight into the mechanism of mRNA storage that controls localized translation and mRNA stability in P-bodies."	1
"32130890"	"Regulated Proteolysis of MutSγ Controls Meiotic Crossing Over.Crossover recombination is essential for accurate chromosome segregation during meiosis. The MutSγ complex, Msh4-Msh5, facilitates crossing over by binding and stabilizing nascent recombination intermediates. We show that these activities are governed by regulated proteolysis. MutSγ is initially inactive for crossing over due to an N-terminal degron on Msh4 that renders it unstable by directly targeting proteasomal degradation. Activation of MutSγ requires the Dbf4-dependent kinase Cdc7 (DDK), which directly phosphorylates and thereby neutralizes the Msh4 degron. Genetic requirements for Msh4 phosphorylation indicate that DDK targets MutSγ only after it has bound to nascent joint molecules (JMs) in the context of synapsing chromosomes. Overexpression studies confirm that the steady-state level of Msh4, not phosphorylation per se, is the critical determinant for crossing over. At the DNA level, Msh4 phosphorylation enables the formation and crossover-biased resolution of double-Holliday Junction intermediates. Our study establishes regulated protein degradation as a fundamental mechanism underlying meiotic crossing over."	1
"31023583"	"ER and Nutrient Stress Promote Assembly of Respiratory Chain Supercomplexes through the PERK-eIF2α Axis.Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response are energetically challenging under nutrient stress conditions. However, the regulatory mechanisms that control the energetic demand under nutrient and ER stress are largely unknown. Here we show that ER stress and glucose deprivation stimulate mitochondrial bioenergetics and formation of respiratory supercomplexes (SCs) through protein kinase R-like ER kinase (PERK). Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of PERK suppresses nutrient and ER stress-mediated increases in SC levels and reduces oxidative phosphorylation-dependent ATP production. Conversely, PERK activation augments respiratory SCs. The PERK-eIF2α-ATF4 axis increases supercomplex assembly factor 1 (SCAF1 or COX7A2L), promoting SCs and enhanced mitochondrial respiration. PERK activation is sufficient to rescue bioenergetic defects caused by complex I missense mutations derived from mitochondrial disease patients. These studies have identified an energetic communication between ER and mitochondria, with implications in cell survival and diseases associated with mitochondrial failures."	1
"32619402"	"Structural Insights into Pseudokinase Domains of Receptor Tyrosine Kinases.Despite their apparent lack of catalytic activity, pseudokinases are essential signaling molecules. Here, we describe the structural and dynamic properties of pseudokinase domains from the Wnt-binding receptor tyrosine kinases (PTK7, ROR1, ROR2, and RYK), which play important roles in development. We determined structures of all pseudokinase domains in this family and found that they share a conserved inactive conformation in their activation loop that resembles the autoinhibited insulin receptor kinase (IRK). They also have inaccessible ATP-binding pockets, occluded by aromatic residues that mimic a cofactor-bound state. Structural comparisons revealed significant domain plasticity and alternative interactions that substitute for absent conserved motifs. The pseudokinases also showed dynamic properties that were strikingly similar to those of IRK. Despite the inaccessible ATP site, screening identified ATP-competitive type-II inhibitors for ROR1. Our results set the stage for an emerging therapeutic modality of ""conformational disruptors"" to inhibit or modulate non-catalytic functions of pseudokinases deregulated in disease."	0
"32402277"	"Nutrient-Driven O-GlcNAcylation Controls DNA Damage Repair Signaling and Stem/Progenitor Cell Homeostasis.Stem/progenitor cells exhibit high proliferation rates, elevated nutrient uptake, altered metabolic flux, and stress-induced genome instability. O-GlcNAcylation is an essential post-translational modification mediated by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) and O-GlcNAcase (OGA), which act in a nutrient- and stress-responsive manner. The precise role of O-GlcNAc in adult stem cells and the relationship between O-GlcNAc and the DNA damage response (DDR) is poorly understood. Here, we show that hyper-O-GlcNacylation leads to elevated insulin signaling, hyperproliferation, and DDR activation that mimic the glucose- and oxidative-stress-induced response. We discover a feedback mechanism involving key downstream effectors of DDR, ATM, ATR, and CHK1/2 that regulates OGT stability to promote O-GlcNAcylation and elevate DDR. This O-GlcNAc-dependent regulatory pathway is critical for maintaining gut homeostasis in Drosophila and the DDR in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Our findings reveal a conserved mechanistic link among O-GlcNAc cycling, stem cell self-renewal, and DDR with profound implications for stem-cell-derived diseases including cancer."	1
"32755570"	"The MARCH6-SQLE Axis Controls Endothelial Cholesterol Homeostasis and Angiogenic Sprouting.The endothelial monolayer forms a barrier between the lumen of blood vessels and the underlying tissues. Stable VE-cadherin-based adherens junctions are essential for maintaining this barrier, whereas their remodeling is required for angiogenesis in health and disease. Here, we position the ERAD-associated ubiquitin ligase MARCH6 as a determinant of angiogenic sprouting and barrier integrity through its ability to promote the degradation of the rate-limiting cholesterol biosynthetic enzyme squalene epoxidase (SQLE). Accordingly, MARCHF6 ablation in endothelial cells increases SQLE protein and cholesterol load. This leads to altered membrane order, disorganized adherens junctions, decreased endothelial barrier function, and impaired SQLE-dependent sprouting angiogenesis. Akin to MARCHF6 silencing, the overexpression of SQLE impairs angiogenesis. However, angiogenesis is also attenuated when SQLE is silenced, indicating that fine-tuning cholesterol biosynthesis is a determinant of healthy endothelial function. In summary, we propose a mechanistic link between regulation of cholesterol homeostasis by the MARCH6-SQLE axis and endothelial integrity and angiogenesis."	1
"32341547"	"Lis1 activates dynein motility by modulating its pairing with dynactin.Lissencephaly-1 (Lis1) is a key cofactor for dynein-mediated intracellular transport towards the minus-ends of microtubules. It remains unclear whether Lis1 serves as an inhibitor or an activator of mammalian dynein motility. Here we use single-molecule imaging and optical trapping to show that Lis1 does not directly alter the stepping and force production of individual dynein motors assembled with dynactin and a cargo adaptor. Instead, Lis1 promotes the formation of an active complex with dynactin. Lis1 also favours the recruitment of two dyneins to dynactin, resulting in increased velocity, higher force production and more effective competition against kinesin in a tug-of-war. Lis1 dissociates from motile complexes, indicating that its primary role is to orchestrate the assembly of the transport machinery. We propose that Lis1 binding releases dynein from its autoinhibited state, which provides a mechanistic explanation for why Lis1 is required for efficient transport of many dynein-associated cargos in cells."	0
"32220303"	"4D Genome Rewiring during Oncogene-Induced and Replicative Senescence.To understand the role of the extensive senescence-associated 3D genome reorganization, we generated genome-wide chromatin interaction maps, epigenome, replication-timing, whole-genome bisulfite sequencing, and gene expression profiles from cells entering replicative senescence (RS) or upon oncogene-induced senescence (OIS). We identify senescence-associated heterochromatin domains (SAHDs). Differential intra- versus inter-SAHD interactions lead to the formation of senescence-associated heterochromatin foci (SAHFs) in OIS but not in RS. This OIS-specific configuration brings active genes located in genomic regions adjacent to SAHDs in close spatial proximity and favors their expression. We also identify DNMT1 as a factor that induces SAHFs by promoting HMGA2 expression. Upon DNMT1 depletion, OIS cells transition to a 3D genome conformation akin to that of cells in replicative senescence. These data show how multi-omics and imaging can identify critical features of RS and OIS and discover determinants of acute senescence and SAHF formation."	0
"32320652"	"Rational Design of Allosteric and Selective Inhibitors of the Molecular Chaperone TRAP1.TRAP1 is the mitochondrial paralog of the heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) chaperone family. Its activity as an energy metabolism regulator has important implications in cancer, neurodegeneration, and ischemia. Selective inhibitors of TRAP1 could inform on its mechanisms of action and set the stage for targeted drug development, but their identification was hampered by the similarity among active sites in HSP90 homologs. We use a dynamics-based approach to identify a TRAP1 allosteric pocket distal to its active site that can host drug-like molecules, and we select small molecules with optimal stereochemical features to target the pocket. These leads inhibit TRAP1, but not HSP90, ATPase activity and revert TRAP1-dependent downregulation of succinate dehydrogenase activity in cancer cells and in zebrafish larvae. TRAP1 inhibitors are not toxic per se, but they abolish tumorigenic growth of neoplastic cells. Our results indicate that exploiting conformational dynamics can expand the chemical space of chaperone antagonists to TRAP1-specific inhibitors with wide therapeutic opportunities."	0
"32101753"	"Auto-ubiquitination of NEDD4-1 Recruits USP13 to Facilitate Autophagy through Deubiquitinating VPS34.The class III phosphoinositide 3-kinase vacuolar protein sorting 34 (VPS34) is a core protein of autophagy initiation, yet the regulatory mechanisms responsible for its stringent control remain poorly understood. Here, we report that the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4-1 promotes the autophagy flux by targeting VPS34. NEDD4-1 undergoes lysine 29 (K29)-linked auto-ubiquitination at K1279 and serves as a scaffold for recruiting the ubiquitin-specific protease 13 (USP13) to form an NEDD4-1-USP13 deubiquitination complex, which subsequently stabilizes VPS34 to promote autophagy through removing the K48-linked poly-ubiquitin chains from VPS34 at K419. Knockout of either NEDD4-1 or USP13 increased K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation of VPS34, thus attenuating the formation of the autophagosome. Our results identify an essential role for NEDD4-1 in regulating autophagy, which provides molecular insights into the mechanisms by which ubiquitination regulates autophagy flux."	1
"32130905"	"Functional Diversity of Glycinergic Commissural Inhibitory Neurons in Larval Zebrafish.Commissural inhibitory neurons in the spinal cord of aquatic vertebrates coordinate left-right body alternation during swimming. Their developmental origin, however, has been elusive. We investigate this by comparing the anatomy and function of two commissural inhibitory neuron types, dI6dmrt3a and V0d, derived from the pd6 and p0 progenitor domains, respectively. We find that both of these commissural neuron types have monosynaptic, inhibitory connections to neuronal populations active during fictive swimming, supporting their role in providing inhibition to the contralateral side. V0d neurons tend to fire during faster and stronger movements, while dI6dmrt3a neurons tend to fire more consistently during normal fictive swimming. Ablation of dI6dmrt3a neurons leads to an impairment of left-right alternating activity through abnormal co-activation of ventral root neurons on both sides of the spinal cord. Our results suggest that dI6dmrt3a and V0d commissural inhibitory neurons synergistically provide inhibition to the opposite side across different swimming behaviors."	0
"32017898"	"The Alazami Syndrome-Associated Protein LARP7 Guides U6 Small Nuclear RNA Modification and Contributes to Splicing Robustness.The La-related protein 7 (LARP7) forms a complex with the nuclear 7SK RNA to regulate RNA polymerase II transcription. It has been implicated in cancer and the Alazami syndrome, a severe developmental disorder. Here, we report a so far unknown role of this protein in RNA modification. We show that LARP7 physically connects the spliceosomal U6 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) with a distinct subset of box C/D small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) guiding U6 2'-O-methylation. Consistently, these modifications are severely compromised in the absence of LARP7. Although general splicing remains largely unaffected, transcriptome-wide analysis revealed perturbations in alternative splicing in LARP7-depleted cells. Importantly, we identified defects in 2'-O-methylation of the U6 snRNA in Alazami syndrome siblings carrying a LARP7 mutation. Our data identify LARP7 as a bridging factor for snoRNA-guided modification of the U6 snRNA and suggest that alterations in splicing fidelity contribute to the etiology of the Alazami syndrome."	1
"32640220"	"WRNIP1 Is Recruited to DNA Interstrand Crosslinks and Promotes Repair.The Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway repairs DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs). Many FA proteins are recruited to ICLs in a timely fashion so that coordinated repair can occur. However, the mechanism of this process is poorly understood. Here, we report the purification of a FANCD2-containing protein complex with multiple subunits, including WRNIP1. Using live-cell imaging, we show that WRNIP1 is recruited to ICLs quickly after their appearance, promoting repair. The observed recruitment facilitates subsequent recruitment of the FANCD2/FANCI complex. Depletion of WRNIP1 sensitizes cells to ICL-forming drugs. We find that ubiquitination of WRNIP1 and the activity of its UBZ domain are required to facilitate recruitment of FANCD2/FANCI and promote repair. Altogether, we describe a mechanism by which WRNIP1 is recruited rapidly to ICLs, resulting in chromatin loading of the FANCD2/FANCI complex in an unusual process entailing ubiquitination of WRNIP1 and the activity of its integral UBZ domain."	1
"31350118"	"Time-Resolved Small RNA Sequencing Unravels the Molecular Principles of MicroRNA Homeostasis.Argonaute-bound microRNAs silence mRNA expression in a dynamic and regulated manner to control organismal development, physiology, and disease. We employed metabolic small RNA sequencing for a comprehensive view on intracellular microRNA kinetics in Drosophila. Based on absolute rate of biogenesis and decay, microRNAs rank among the fastest produced and longest-lived cellular transcripts, disposing up to 10<sup>5</sup> copies per cell at steady-state. Mature microRNAs are produced within minutes, revealing tight intracellular coupling of biogenesis that is selectively disrupted by pre-miRNA-uridylation. Control over Argonaute protein homeostasis generates a kinetic bottleneck that cooperates with non-coding RNA surveillance to ensure faithful microRNA loading. Finally, regulated small RNA decay enables the selective rapid turnover of Ago1-bound microRNAs, but not of Ago2-bound small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), reflecting key differences in the robustness of small RNA silencing pathways. Time-resolved small RNA sequencing opens new experimental avenues to deconvolute the timescales, molecular features, and regulation of small RNA silencing pathways in living cells."	0
"31278054"	"TSPYL5 Depletion Induces Specific Death of ALT Cells through USP7-Dependent Proteasomal Degradation of POT1.A significant fraction (∼10%) of cancer cells maintain their telomere length via a telomerase-independent mechanism known as alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). There are no known molecular, ALT-specific, therapeutic targets. We have identified TSPYL5 (testis-specific Y-encoded-like protein 5) as a PML body component, co-localizing with ALT telomeres and critical for ALT<sup>+</sup> cell viability. TSPYL5 was described as an inhibitor of the USP7 deubiquitinase. We report that TSPYL5 prevents the poly-ubiquitination of POT1-a shelterin component-and protects POT1 from proteasomal degradation exclusively in ALT<sup>+</sup> cells. USP7 depletion rescued POT1 poly-ubiquitination and loss, suggesting that the deubiquitinase activates POT1 E3 ubiquitin ligase(s). Similarly, PML depletion suppressed POT1 poly-ubiquitination, suggesting an interplay between USP7 and PML to trigger POT1 degradation in TSPYL5-depleted ALT<sup>+</sup> cells. We demonstrate that ALT telomeres need to be protected from POT1 degradation in ALT-associated PML bodies and identify TSPYL5 as an ALT<sup>+</sup> cancer-specific therapeutic target."	1
"32820036"	"Functional loss of a noncanonical BCOR-PRC1.1 complex accelerates SHH-driven medulloblastoma formation.Medulloblastoma is a malignant childhood brain tumor arising from the developing cerebellum. In Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) subgroup medulloblastoma, aberrant activation of SHH signaling causes increased proliferation of granule neuron progenitors (GNPs), and predisposes these cells to tumorigenesis. A second, cooperating genetic hit is often required to push these hyperplastic cells to malignancy and confer mutation-specific characteristics associated with oncogenic signaling. Somatic loss-of-function mutations of the transcriptional corepressor <i>BCOR</i> are recurrent and enriched in SHH medulloblastoma. To investigate <i>BCOR</i> as a putative tumor suppressor, we used a genetically engineered mouse model to delete exons 9/10 of <i>Bcor</i> (<i>Bcor</i><sup>
                        <i>ΔE9-10</i>
                    </sup> ) in GNPs during development. This mutation leads to reduced expression of C-terminally truncated BCOR (BCOR<sup>ΔE9-10</sup>). While <i>Bcor</i><sup>
                        <i>ΔE9-10</i>
                    </sup> alone did not promote tumorigenesis or affect GNP differentiation, <i>Bcor</i><sup>
                        <i>ΔE9-10</i>
                    </sup> combined with loss of the SHH receptor gene <i>Ptch1</i> resulted in fully penetrant medulloblastomas. In <i>Ptch1</i><sup>
                        <i>+/-</i>
                    </sup> ;<i>Bcor</i><sup>
                        <i>ΔE9-10</i>
                    </sup> tumors, the growth factor gene <i>Igf2</i> was aberrantly up-regulated, and ectopic <i>Igf2</i> overexpression was sufficient to drive tumorigenesis in <i>Ptch1</i><sup>+/-</sup> GNPs. BCOR directly regulates <i>Igf2</i>, likely through the PRC1.1 complex; the repressive histone mark H2AK119Ub is decreased at the <i>Igf2</i> promoter in <i>Ptch1</i><sup>
                        <i>+/-</i>
                    </sup> ;<i>Bcor</i><sup>
                        <i>ΔE9-10</i>
                    </sup> tumors. Overall, our data suggests that BCOR-PRC1.1 disruption leads to <i>Igf2</i> overexpression, which transforms preneoplastic cells to malignant tumors."	0
"32905760"	"Brain States and Transitions: Insights from Computational Neuroscience.Within the field of computational neuroscience there are great expectations of finding new ways to rebalance the complex dynamic system of the human brain through controlled pharmacological or electromagnetic perturbation. Yet many obstacles remain between the ability to accurately predict how and where best to perturb to force a transition from one brain state to another. The foremost challenge is a commonly agreed definition of a given brain state. Recent progress in computational neuroscience has made it possible to robustly define brain states and force transitions between them. Here, we review the state of the art and propose a framework for determining the functional hierarchical organization describing any given brain state. We describe the latest advances in creating sophisticated whole-brain computational models with interacting neuronal and neurotransmitter systems that can be studied fully in silico to predict and design novel pharmacological and electromagnetic interventions to rebalance them in disease."	0
"30878284"	"Apoptotic Caspases Suppress Type I Interferon Production via the Cleavage of cGAS, MAVS, and IRF3.Viral infection triggers host defenses through pattern-recognition receptor-mediated cytokine production, inflammasome activation, and apoptosis of the infected cells. Inflammasome-activated caspases are known to cleave cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS). Here, we found that apoptotic caspases are critically involved in regulating both DNA and RNA virus-triggered host defenses, in which activated caspase-3 cleaved cGAS, MAVS, and IRF3 to prevent cytokine overproduction. Caspase-3 was exclusively required in human cells, whereas caspase-7 was involved only in murine cells to inactivate cGAS, reflecting distinct regulatory mechanisms in different species. Caspase-mediated cGAS cleavage was enhanced in the presence of dsDNA. Alternative MAVS cleavage sites were used to ensure the inactivation of this critical protein. Elevated type I IFNs were detected in caspase-3-deficient cells without any infection. Casp3<sup>-/-</sup> mice consistently showed increased resistance to viral infection and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Our results demonstrate that apoptotic caspases control innate immunity and maintain immune homeostasis against viral infection."	1
"32294471"	"Transcription Dynamics Regulate Poly(A) Tails and Expression of the RNA Degradation Machinery to Balance mRNA Levels.Gene expression is regulated by the rates of synthesis and degradation of mRNAs, but how these processes are coordinated is poorly understood. Here, we show that reduced transcription dynamics of specific genes leads to enhanced m<sup>6</sup>A deposition, preferential activity of the CCR4-Not complex, shortened poly(A) tails, and reduced stability of the respective mRNAs. These effects are also exerted by internal ribosome entry site (IRES) elements, which we found to be transcriptional pause sites. However, when transcription dynamics, and subsequently poly(A) tails, are globally altered, cells buffer mRNA levels by adjusting the expression of mRNA degradation machinery. Stress-provoked global impediment of transcription elongation leads to a dramatic inhibition of the mRNA degradation machinery and massive mRNA stabilization. Accordingly, globally enhanced transcription, such as following B cell activation or glucose stimulation, has the opposite effects. This study uncovers two molecular pathways that maintain balanced gene expression in mammalian cells by linking transcription to mRNA stability."	0
"31995728"	"AMPK, a Regulator of Metabolism and Autophagy, Is Activated by Lysosomal Damage via a Novel Galectin-Directed Ubiquitin Signal Transduction System.AMPK is a central regulator of metabolism and autophagy. Here we show how lysosomal damage activates AMPK. This occurs via a hitherto unrecognized signal transduction system whereby cytoplasmic sentinel lectins detect membrane damage leading to ubiquitination responses. Absence of Galectin 9 (Gal9) or loss of its capacity to recognize lumenal glycans exposed during lysosomal membrane damage abrogate such ubiquitination responses. Proteomic analyses with APEX2-Gal9 have revealed global changes within the Gal9 interactome during lysosomal damage. Gal9 association with lysosomal glycoproteins increases whereas interactions with a newly identified Gal9 partner, deubiquitinase USP9X, diminishes upon lysosomal injury. In response to damage, Gal9 displaces USP9X from complexes with TAK1 and promotes K63 ubiquitination of TAK1 thus activating AMPK on damaged lysosomes. This triggers autophagy and contributes to autophagic control of membrane-damaging microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Thus, galectin and ubiquitin systems converge to activate AMPK and autophagy during endomembrane homeostasis."	1
"32616520"	"Identification of a localized nonsense-mediated decay pathway at the endoplasmic reticulum.Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a translation-dependent RNA quality control mechanism that occurs in the cytoplasm. However, it is unknown how NMD regulates the stability of RNAs translated at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here, we identify a localized NMD pathway dedicated to ER-translated mRNAs. We previously identified NBAS, a component of the Syntaxin 18 complex involved in Golgi-to-ER trafficking, as a novel NMD factor. Furthermore, we show that NBAS fulfills an independent function in NMD. This ER-NMD pathway requires the interaction of NBAS with the core NMD factor UPF1, which is partially localized at the ER in the proximity of the translocon. NBAS and UPF1 coregulate the stability of ER-associated transcripts, in particular those associated with the cellular stress response. We propose a model where NBAS recruits UPF1 to the membrane of the ER and activates an ER-dedicated NMD pathway, thus providing an ER-protective function by ensuring quality control of ER-translated mRNAs."	1
"32668215"	"Human-IgG-Neutralizing Monoclonal Antibodies Block the SARS-CoV-2 Infection.Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has become a worldwide threat to humans, and neutralizing antibodies have therapeutic potential. We have purified more than 1,000 memory B cells specific to SARS-CoV-2 S1 or its RBD (receptor binding domain) and obtain 729 paired heavy- and light-chain fragments. Among these, 178 antibodies test positive for antigen binding, and the majority of the top 17 binders with EC<sub>50</sub> below 1 nM are RBD binders. Furthermore, we identify 11 neutralizing antibodies, eight of which show IC<sub>50</sub> within 10 nM, and the best one, 414-1, with IC<sub>50</sub> of 1.75 nM. Through epitope mapping, we find three main epitopes in RBD recognized by these antibodies, and epitope-B antibody 553-15 could substantially enhance the neutralizing abilities of most of the other antibodies. We also find that 515-5 could cross neutralize the SARS-CoV pseudovirus. Altogether, our study provides 11 potent human neutralizing antibodies for COVID-19 as therapeutic candidates."	0
"32579923"	"Microglia Dysfunction Caused by the Loss of Rhoa Disrupts Neuronal Physiology and Leads to Neurodegeneration.Nervous tissue homeostasis requires the regulation of microglia activity. Using conditional gene targeting in mice, we demonstrate that genetic ablation of the small GTPase Rhoa in adult microglia is sufficient to trigger spontaneous microglia activation, producing a neurological phenotype (including synapse and neuron loss, impairment of long-term potentiation [LTP], formation of β-amyloid plaques, and memory deficits). Mechanistically, loss of Rhoa in microglia triggers Src activation and Src-mediated tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, leading to excitotoxic glutamate secretion. Inhibiting Src in microglia Rhoa-deficient mice attenuates microglia dysregulation and the ensuing neurological phenotype. We also find that the Rhoa/Src signaling pathway is disrupted in microglia of the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer disease and that low doses of Aβ oligomers trigger microglia neurotoxic polarization through the disruption of Rhoa-to-Src signaling. Overall, our results indicate that disturbing Rho GTPase signaling in microglia can directly cause neurodegeneration."	1
"31968261"	"Topological Structure and Robustness of the Lymph Node Conduit System.Fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs) form a road-like cellular network in lymph nodes (LNs) that provides essential chemotactic, survival, and regulatory signals for immune cells. While the topological characteristics of the FRC network have been elaborated, the network properties of the micro-tubular conduit system generated by FRCs, which drains lymph fluid through a pipeline-like system to distribute small molecules and antigens, has remained unexplored. Here, we quantify the crucial 3D morphometric parameters and determine the topological properties governing the structural organization of the intertwined networks. We find that the conduit system exhibits lesser small-worldness and lower resilience to perturbation compared to the FRC network, while the robust topological organization of both networks is maintained in a lymphotoxin-β-receptor-independent manner. Overall, the high-resolution topological analysis of the ""roads-and-pipes"" networks highlights essential parameters underlying the functional organization of LN micro-environments and will, hence, advance the development of multi-scale LN models."	0
"31519521"	"SUMO-Chain-Regulated Proteasomal Degradation Timing Exemplified in DNA Replication Initiation.Similar to ubiquitin, SUMO forms chains, but the identity of SUMO-chain-modified factors and the purpose of this modification remain largely unknown. Here, we identify the budding yeast SUMO protease Ulp2, able to disassemble SUMO chains, as a DDK interactor enriched at replication origins that promotes DNA replication initiation. Replication-engaged DDK is SUMOylated on chromatin, becoming a degradation-prone substrate when Ulp2 no longer protects it against SUMO chain assembly. Specifically, SUMO chains channel DDK for SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase Slx5/Slx8-mediated and Cdc48 segregase-assisted proteasomal degradation. Importantly, the SUMOylation-defective ddk-KR mutant rescues inefficient replication onset and MCM activation in cells lacking Ulp2, suggesting that SUMO chains time DDK degradation. Using two unbiased proteomic approaches, we further identify subunits of the MCM helicase and other factors as SUMO-chain-modified degradation-prone substrates of Ulp2 and Slx5/Slx8. We thus propose SUMO-chain/Ulp2-protease-regulated proteasomal degradation as a mechanism that times the availability of functionally engaged SUMO-modified protein pools during replication and beyond."	1
"32807902"	"p27 controls Ragulator and mTOR activity in amino acid-deprived cells to regulate the autophagy-lysosomal pathway and coordinate cell cycle and cell growth.Autophagy is a catabolic process whereby cytoplasmic components are degraded within lysosomes, allowing cells to maintain energy homeostasis during nutrient depletion. Several studies reported that the CDK inhibitor p27<sup>Kip1</sup> promotes starvation-induced autophagy by an unknown mechanism. Here we find that p27 controls autophagy via an mTORC1-dependent mechanism in amino acid-deprived cells. During prolonged starvation, a fraction of p27 is recruited to lysosomes, where it interacts with LAMTOR1, a component of the Ragulator complex required for mTORC1 activation. Binding of p27 to LAMTOR1 prevents Ragulator assembly and mTORC1 activation, promoting autophagy. Conversely, p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells exhibit elevated mTORC1 signalling as well as impaired lysosomal activity and autophagy. This is associated with cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB, preventing induction of the lysosomal genes required for lysosome function. LAMTOR1 silencing or mTOR inhibition restores autophagy and induces apoptosis in p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Together, these results reveal a direct coordinated regulation between the cell cycle and cell growth machineries."	1
"32610129"	"Angiocrine Sphingosine-1-Phosphate Activation of S1PR2-YAP Signaling Axis in Alveolar Type II Cells Is Essential for Lung Repair.Lung alveolar epithelium is composed of alveolar type I (AT1) and type II (AT2) cells. AT1 cells mediate gas exchange, whereas AT2 cells act as progenitor cells to repair injured alveoli. Lung microvascular endothelial cells (LMVECs) play a crucial but still poorly understood role in regulating alveolar repair. Here, we studied the role of the LMVEC-derived bioactive lipid sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) in promoting alveolar repair using mice with endothelial-specific deletion of sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1), the key enzyme promoting S1P generation. These mutant lungs developed airspace-enlargement lesions and exhibited a reduced number of AT1 cells after Pseudomonas-aeruginosa-induced lung injury. We demonstrated that S1P released by LMVECs acted via its receptor, S1PR2, on AT2 cells and induced nuclear translocation of yes-associated protein (YAP), a regulator of AT2 to AT1 transition. Thus, angiocrine S1P released after injury acts via the S1PR2-YAP signaling axis on AT2 cells to promote AT2 to AT1 differentiation required for alveolar repair."	1
"32546482"	"Viperin: An ancient radical SAM enzyme finds its place in modern cellular metabolism and innate immunity.Viperin plays an important and multifaceted role in the innate immune response to viral infection. Viperin is also notable as one of very few radical SAM-dependent enzymes present in higher animals; however, the enzyme appears broadly conserved across all kingdoms of life, which suggests that it represents an ancient defense mechanism against viral infections. Although viperin was discovered some 20 years ago, only recently was the enzyme's structure determined and its catalytic activity elucidated. The enzyme converts CTP to 3'-deoxy-3',4'-didehydro-CTP, which functions as novel chain-terminating antiviral nucleotide when misincorporated by viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases. Moreover, in higher animals, viperin interacts with numerous other host and viral proteins, and it is apparent that this complex network of interactions constitutes another important aspect of the protein's antiviral activity. An emerging theme is that viperin appears to facilitate ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation of some of the proteins it interacts with. Viperin-targeted protein degradation contributes to the antiviral response either by down-regulating various metabolic pathways important for viral replication or by directly targeting viral proteins for degradation. Here, we review recent advances in our understanding of the structure and catalytic activity of viperin, together with studies investigating the interactions between viperin and its target proteins. These studies have provided detailed insights into the biochemical processes underpinning this unusual enzyme's wide-ranging antiviral activity. We also highlight recent intriguing reports that implicate a broader role for viperin in regulating nonpathological cellular processes, including thermogenesis and protein secretion."	0
"32187551"	"Mesenchymal Stem and Stromal Cells Harness Macrophage-Derived Amphiregulin to Maintain Tissue Homeostasis.The cross-talk between mesenchymal stem and stromal cells (MSCs) and macrophages is critical for the restoration of tissue homeostasis after injury. Here, we demonstrate a pathway through which MSCs instruct macrophages to resolve inflammation and preserve tissue-specific stem cells, leading to homeostasis in mice with autoimmune uveoretinitis and sterile-injury-induced corneal epithelial stem cell deficiency. Distinct from their conventional role in macrophage reprogramming to anti-inflammatory phenotype by a PGE2-dependent mechanism, MSCs enhance the phagocytic activity of macrophages, which partly depends on the uptake of MSC mitochondria-containing extracellular vesicles. The MSC-primed macrophages increase the secretion of amphiregulin (AREG) in a phagocytosis-dependent manner. AREG is essential for MSC-primed macrophages to suppress immune responses through regulatory T (Treg) cells and to protect corneal epithelial stem cells via apoptosis inhibition and proliferation promotion. Hence, the data reveal that MSCs harness macrophage-derived AREG to maintain tissue homeostasis after injury and provide a therapeutic target in immune-mediated disease and regenerative medicine."	0
"32101731"	"Non-canonical Caspase-1 Signaling Drives RIP2-Dependent and TNF-α-Mediated Inflammation In Vivo.Pro-inflammatory caspase-1 is a key player in innate immunity. Caspase-1 processes interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18 to their mature forms and triggers pyroptosis. These caspase-1 functions are linked to its enzymatic activity. However, loss-of-function missense mutations in CASP1 do not prevent autoinflammation in patients, despite decreased IL-1β production. In vitro data suggest that enzymatically inactive caspase-1 drives inflammation via enhanced nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) activation, independent of IL-1β processing. Here, we report two mouse models of enzymatically inactive caspase-1-C284A, demonstrating the relevance of this pathway in vivo. In contrast to Casp1<sup>-/-</sup> mice, caspase-1-C284A mice show pronounced hypothermia and increased levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and IL-6 when challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Caspase-1-C284A signaling is RIP2 dependent and mediated by TNF-α but independent of the NLRP3 inflammasome. LPS-stimulated whole blood from patients carrying loss-of-function missense mutations in CASP1 secretes higher amounts of TNF-α. Taken together, these results reveal non-canonical caspase-1 signaling in vivo."	0
"32571877"	"Crystal structures of human PAICS reveal substrate and product binding of an emerging cancer target.The bifunctional human enzyme phosphoribosylaminoimidazole carboxylase and phosphoribosylaminoimidazolesuccinocarboxamide synthetase (PAICS) catalyzes two essential steps in the <i>de novo</i> purine biosynthesis pathway. PAICS is overexpressed in many cancers and could be a promising target for the development of cancer therapeutics. Here, using gene knockdowns and clonogenic survival and cell viability assays, we demonstrate that PAICS is required for growth and survival of prostate cancer cells. PAICS catalyzes the carboxylation of aminoimidazole ribonucleotide (AIR) and the subsequent conversion of carboxyaminoimidazole ribonucleotide (CAIR) and l-aspartate to <i>N</i>-succinylcarboxamide-5-aminoimidazole ribonucleotide (SAICAR). Of note, we present the first structures of human octameric PAICS in complexes with native ligands. In particular, we report the structure of PAICS with CAIR bound in the active sites of both domains and SAICAR bound in one of the SAICAR synthetase domains. Moreover, we report the PAICS structure with SAICAR and an ATP analog occupying the SAICAR synthetase active site. These structures provide insight into substrate and product binding and the architecture of the active sites, disclosing important structural information for rational design of PAICS inhibitors as potential anticancer drugs."	0
"31901446"	"Su(var)2-10 and the SUMO Pathway Link piRNA-Guided Target Recognition to Chromatin Silencing.Regulation of transcription is the main mechanism responsible for precise control of gene expression. Whereas the majority of transcriptional regulation is mediated by DNA-binding transcription factors that bind to regulatory gene regions, an elegant alternative strategy employs small RNA guides, Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) to identify targets of transcriptional repression. Here, we show that in Drosophila the small ubiquitin-like protein SUMO and the SUMO E3 ligase Su(var)2-10 are required for piRNA-guided deposition of repressive chromatin marks and transcriptional silencing of piRNA targets. Su(var)2-10 links the piRNA-guided target recognition complex to the silencing effector by binding the piRNA/Piwi complex and inducing SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde histone methyltransferase effector. We propose that in Drosophila, the nuclear piRNA pathway has co-opted a conserved mechanism of SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde chromatin modifier to confer repression of genomic parasites."	1
"31999954"	"Autism-Misregulated eIF4G Microexons Control Synaptic Translation and Higher Order Cognitive Functions.Microexons represent the most highly conserved class of alternative splicing, yet their functions are poorly understood. Here, we focus on closely related neuronal microexons overlapping prion-like domains in the translation initiation factors, eIF4G1 and eIF4G3, the splicing of which is activity dependent and frequently disrupted in autism. CRISPR-Cas9 deletion of these microexons selectively upregulates synaptic proteins that control neuronal activity and plasticity and further triggers a gene expression program mirroring that of activated neurons. Mice lacking the Eif4g1 microexon display social behavior, learning, and memory deficits, accompanied by altered hippocampal synaptic plasticity. We provide evidence that the eIF4G microexons function as a translational brake by causing ribosome stalling, through their propensity to promote the coalescence of cytoplasmic granule components associated with translation repression, including the fragile X mental retardation protein FMRP. The results thus reveal an autism-disrupted mechanism by which alternative splicing specializes neuronal translation to control higher order cognitive functioning."	0
"31442422"	"The Gene-Silencing Protein MORC-1 Topologically Entraps DNA and Forms Multimeric Assemblies to Cause DNA Compaction.Microrchidia (MORC) ATPases are critical for gene silencing and chromatin compaction in multiple eukaryotic systems, but the mechanisms by which MORC proteins act are poorly understood. Here, we apply a series of biochemical, single-molecule, and cell-based imaging approaches to better understand the function of the Caenorhabditis elegans MORC-1 protein. We find that MORC-1 binds to DNA in a length-dependent but sequence non-specific manner and compacts DNA by forming DNA loops. MORC-1 molecules diffuse along DNA but become static as they grow into foci that are topologically entrapped on DNA. Consistent with the observed MORC-1 multimeric assemblies, MORC-1 forms nuclear puncta in cells and can also form phase-separated droplets in vitro. We also demonstrate that MORC-1 compacts nucleosome templates. These results suggest that MORCs affect genome structure and gene silencing by forming multimeric assemblages to topologically entrap and progressively loop and compact chromatin."	0
"30904392"	"Protein Kinase C Quality Control by Phosphatase PHLPP1 Unveils Loss-of-Function Mechanism in Cancer.Protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes function as tumor suppressors in increasing contexts. In contrast to oncogenic kinases, whose function is acutely regulated by transient phosphorylation, PKC is constitutively phosphorylated following biosynthesis to yield a stable, autoinhibited enzyme that is reversibly activated by second messengers. Here, we report that the phosphatase PHLPP1 opposes PKC phosphorylation during maturation, leading to the degradation of aberrantly active species that do not become autoinhibited. Cancer-associated hotspot mutations in the pseudosubstrate of PKCβ that impair autoinhibition result in dephosphorylated and unstable enzymes. Protein-level analysis reveals that PKCα is fully phosphorylated at the PHLPP site in over 5,000 patient tumors, with higher PKC levels correlating (1) inversely with PHLPP1 levels and (2) positively with improved survival in pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Thus, PHLPP1 provides a proofreading step that maintains the fidelity of PKC autoinhibition and reveals a prominent loss-of-function mechanism in cancer by suppressing the steady-state levels of PKC."	1
"32191872"	"Ago2-Dependent Processing Allows miR-451 to Evade the Global MicroRNA Turnover Elicited during Erythropoiesis.MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are sequentially processed by two RNase III enzymes, Drosha and Dicer. miR-451 is the only known miRNA whose processing bypasses Dicer and instead relies on the slicer activity of Argonaute-2 (Ago2). miR-451 is highly conserved in vertebrates and regulates erythrocyte maturation, where it becomes the most abundant miRNA. However, the basis for the non-canonical biogenesis of miR-451 is unclear. Here, we show that Ago2 is less efficient than Dicer in processing pre-miRNAs, but this deficit is overcome when miR-144 represses Dicer in a negative-feedback loop during erythropoiesis. Loss of miR-144-mediated Dicer repression in zebrafish embryos and human cells leads to increased canonical miRNA production and impaired miR-451 maturation. Overexpression of Ago2 rescues some of the defects of miR-451 processing. Thus, the evolution of Ago2-dependent processing allows miR-451 to circumvent the global repression of canonical miRNAs elicited, in part, by the miR-144 targeting of Dicer during erythropoiesis."	1
"31586547"	"γ-6-Phosphogluconolactone, a Byproduct of the Oxidative Pentose Phosphate Pathway, Contributes to AMPK Activation through Inhibition of PP2A.The oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (oxiPPP) contributes to cell metabolism through not only the production of metabolic intermediates and reductive NADPH but also inhibition of LKB1-AMPK signaling by ribulose-5-phosphate (Ru-5-P), the product of the third oxiPPP enzyme 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD). However, we found that knockdown of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), the first oxiPPP enzyme, did not affect AMPK activation despite decreased Ru-5-P and subsequent LKB1 activation, due to enhanced activity of PP2A, the upstream phosphatase of AMPK. In contrast, knockdown of 6PGD or 6-phosphogluconolactonase (PGLS), the second oxiPPP enzyme, reduced PP2A activity. Mechanistically, knockdown of G6PD or PGLS decreased or increased 6-phosphogluconolactone level, respectively, which enhanced the inhibitory phosphorylation of PP2A by Src. Furthermore, γ-6-phosphogluconolactone, an oxiPPP byproduct with unknown function generated through intramolecular rearrangement of δ-6-phosphogluconolactone, the only substrate of PGLS, bound to Src and enhanced PP2A recruitment. Together, oxiPPP regulates AMPK homeostasis by balancing the opposing LKB1 and PP2A."	1
"31474573"	"Polyamines Control eIF5A Hypusination, TFEB Translation, and Autophagy to Reverse B Cell Senescence.Failure to make adaptive immune responses is a hallmark of aging. Reduced B cell function leads to poor vaccination efficacy and a high prevalence of infections in the elderly. Here we show that reduced autophagy is a central molecular mechanism underlying immune senescence. Autophagy levels are specifically reduced in mature lymphocytes, leading to compromised memory B cell responses in old individuals. Spermidine, an endogenous polyamine metabolite, induces autophagy in vivo and rejuvenates memory B cell responses. Mechanistically, spermidine post-translationally modifies the translation factor eIF5A, which is essential for the synthesis of the autophagy transcription factor TFEB. Spermidine is depleted in the elderly, leading to reduced TFEB expression and autophagy. Spermidine supplementation restored this pathway and improved the responses of old human B cells. Taken together, our results reveal an unexpected autophagy regulatory mechanism mediated by eIF5A at the translational level, which can be harnessed to reverse immune senescence in humans."	1
"32433965"	"Unbiased Identification of trans Regulators of ADAR and A-to-I RNA Editing.Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing is catalyzed by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) enzymes that deaminate adenosine to inosine. Although many RNA editing sites are known, few trans regulators have been identified. We perform BioID followed by mass spectrometry to identify trans regulators of ADAR1 and ADAR2 in HeLa and M17 neuroblastoma cells. We identify known and novel ADAR-interacting proteins. Using ENCODE data, we validate and characterize a subset of the novel interactors as global or site-specific RNA editing regulators. Our set of novel trans regulators includes all four members of the DZF-domain-containing family of proteins: ILF3, ILF2, STRBP, and ZFR. We show that these proteins interact with each ADAR and modulate RNA editing levels. We find ILF3 is a broadly influential negative regulator of editing. This work demonstrates the broad roles that RNA binding proteins play in regulating editing levels, and establishes DZF-domain-containing proteins as a group of highly influential RNA editing regulators."	1
"32737146"	"Correction: Betaine is accumulated via transient choline dehydrogenase activation during mouse oocyte meiotic maturation."	0
"32451439"	"ROCK-mediated selective activation of PERK signalling causes fibroblast reprogramming and tumour progression through a CRELD2-dependent mechanism.It is well accepted that cancers co-opt the microenvironment for their growth. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie cancer-microenvironment interactions are still poorly defined. Here, we show that Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) in the mammary tumour epithelium selectively actuates protein-kinase-R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), causing the recruitment and persistent education of tumour-promoting cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which are part of the cancer microenvironment. An analysis of tumours from patients and mice reveals that cysteine-rich with EGF-like domains 2 (CRELD2) is the paracrine factor that underlies PERK-mediated CAF education downstream of ROCK. We find that CRELD2 is regulated by PERK-regulated ATF4, and depleting CRELD2 suppressed tumour progression, demonstrating that the paracrine ROCK-PERK-ATF4-CRELD2 axis promotes the progression of breast cancer, with implications for cancer therapy."	1
"32521278"	"Enhancer-Driven lncRNA BDNF-AS Induces Endocrine Resistance and Malignant Progression of Breast Cancer through the RNH1/TRIM21/mTOR Cascade.Epigenomic alterations can give rise to various tumor-promoting properties, including therapeutic resistance of cancer cells. Here, we identify an lncRNA, BDNF-AS, whose overexpression is specifically driven by a MEF2A-regulated enhancer in endocrine-resistant and triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). High levels of BDNF-AS in breast cancer tissues not only feature endocrine resistance in hormone receptor (HR)-positive patients but also correlate with poor outcomes in both HR-positive and TNBC patients. Mechanistically, BDNF-AS acts as a molecular scaffold to promote RNH1 protein degradation via TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination of RNH1 at K225. Subsequently, BDNF-AS abolishes RNH1-regulated and RISC-mediated mTOR mRNA decay, therefore sustaining the activation of mTOR signaling. Importantly, mTOR inhibitor, but not PI3K inhibitor, could reverse tamoxifen resistance induced by the overexpression of BDNF-AS. These results point toward a master regulatory role of an enhancer-activated cascade of BDNF-AS/RNH1/TRIM21/mTOR in endocrine resistance and malignant progression of breast cancer."	1
"32023463"	"Oct4-Mediated Inhibition of Lsd1 Activity Promotes the Active and Primed State of Pluripotency Enhancers.An aberrant increase in pluripotency gene (PpG) expression due to enhancer reactivation could induce stemness and enhance the tumorigenicity of cancer stem cells. Silencing of PpG enhancers (PpGe) during embryonic stem cell differentiation involves Lsd1-mediated H3K4me1 demethylation and DNA methylation. Here, we observed retention of H3K4me1 and DNA hypomethylation at PpGe associated with a partial repression of PpGs in F9 embryonal carcinoma cells (ECCs) post-differentiation. H3K4me1 demethylation in F9 ECCs could not be rescued by Lsd1 overexpression. Given our observation that H3K4me1 demethylation is accompanied by strong Oct4 repression in P19 ECCs, we tested if Oct4 interaction with Lsd1 affects its catalytic activity. Our data show a dose-dependent inhibition of Lsd1 activity by Oct4 and retention of H3K4me1 at PpGe in Oct4-overexpressing P19 ECCs. These data suggest that Lsd1-Oct4 interaction in cancer stem cells could establish a ""primed"" enhancer state that is susceptible to reactivation, leading to aberrant PpG expression."	1
"32402279"	"Systemic Type I IFN Inflammation in Human ISG15 Deficiency Leads to Necrotizing Skin Lesions.Most monogenic disorders have a primary clinical presentation. Inherited ISG15 deficiency, however, has manifested with two distinct presentations to date: susceptibility to mycobacterial disease and intracranial calcifications from hypomorphic interferon-II (IFN-II) production and excessive IFN-I response, respectively. Accordingly, these patients were managed for their infectious and neurologic complications. Herein, we describe five new patients with six novel ISG15 mutations presenting with skin lesions who were managed for dermatologic disease. Cellularly, we denote striking specificity to the IFN-I response, which was previously assumed to be universal. In peripheral blood, myeloid cells display the most robust IFN-I signatures. In the affected skin, IFN-I signaling is observed in the keratinocytes of the epidermis, endothelia, and the monocytes and macrophages of the dermis. These findings define the specific cells causing circulating and dermatologic inflammation and expand the clinical spectrum of ISG15 deficiency to dermatologic presentations as a third phenotype co-dominant to the infectious and neurologic manifestations."	0
"32527726"	"A revolution in biochemistry and molecular biology education informed by basic research to meet the demands of 21st century career paths.The National Science Foundation estimates that 80% of the jobs available during the next decade will require math and science skills, dictating that programs in biochemistry and molecular biology must be transformative and use new pedagogical approaches and experiential learning for careers in industry, research, education, engineering, health-care professions, and other interdisciplinary fields. These efforts require an environment that values the individual student and integrates recent advances from the primary literature in the discipline, experimentally directed research, data collection and analysis, and scientific writing. Current trends shaping these efforts must include critical thinking, experimental testing, computational modeling, and inferential logic. In essence, modern biochemistry and molecular biology education must be informed by, and integrated with, cutting-edge research. This environment relies on sustained research support, commitment to providing the requisite mentoring, access to instrumentation, and state-of-the-art facilities. The academic environment must establish a culture of excellence and faculty engagement, leading to innovation in the classroom and laboratory. These efforts must not lose sight of the importance of multidimensional programs that enrich science literacy in all facets of the population, students and teachers in K-12 schools, nonbiochemistry and molecular biology students, and other stakeholders. As biochemistry and molecular biology educators, we have an obligation to provide students with the skills that allow them to be innovative and self-reliant. The next generation of biochemistry and molecular biology students must be taught proficiencies in scientific and technological literacy, the importance of the scientific discourse, and skills required for problem solvers of the 21st century."	0
"32668254"	"Antagonistic Activities of Vegfr3/Flt4 and Notch1b Fine-tune Mechanosensitive Signaling during Zebrafish Cardiac Valvulogenesis.The formation of cardiac valves depends on mechanical forces exerted by blood flow. Endocardial cells lining the interior of the heart are sensitive to these stimuli and respond by rearranging into luminal cells subjected to shear stress and abluminal cells not exposed to it. The mechanisms by which endocardial cells sense these dynamic biomechanical stimuli and how they evoke different cellular responses are largely unknown. Here, we show that blood flow activates two parallel mechanosensitive pathways, one mediated by Notch and the other by Klf2a. Both pathways negatively regulate the angiogenesis receptor Vegfr3/Flt4, which becomes restricted to abluminal endocardial cells. Its loss disrupts valve morphogenesis and results in the occurrence of Notch signaling within abluminal endocardial cells. Our work explains how antagonistic activities by Vegfr3/Flt4 on the abluminal side and by Notch on the luminal side shape cardiac valve leaflets by triggering unique differences in the fates of endocardial cells."	1
"32320655"	"Super-Enhancer Redistribution as a Mechanism of Broad Gene Dysregulation in Repeatedly Drug-Treated Cancer Cells.Cisplatin is an antineoplastic drug administered at suboptimal and intermittent doses to avoid life-threatening effects. Although this regimen shortly improves symptoms in the short term, it also leads to more malignant disease in the long term. We describe a multilayered analysis ranging from chromatin to translation-integrating chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq), global run-on sequencing (GRO-seq), RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and ribosome profiling-to understand how cisplatin confers (pre)malignant features by using a well-established ovarian cancer model of cisplatin exposure. This approach allows us to segregate the human transcriptome into gene modules representing distinct regulatory principles and to characterize that the most cisplatin-disrupted modules are associated with underlying events of super-enhancer plasticity. These events arise when cancer cells initiate without ultimately ending the program of drug-stimulated death. Using a PageRank-based algorithm, we predict super-enhancer regulator ISL1 as a driver of this plasticity and validate this prediction by using CRISPR/dCas9-KRAB inhibition (CRISPRi) and CRISPR/dCas9-VP64 activation (CRISPRa) tools. Together, we propose that cisplatin reprograms cancer cells when inducing them to undergo near-to-death experiences."	0
"32579919"	"Epigenomically Bistable Regions across Neuron-Specific Genes Govern Neuron Eligibility to a Coding Ensemble in the Hippocampus.Sensory inputs activate sparse neuronal ensembles in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, but how eligibility of individual neurons to recruitment is determined remains elusive. We identify thousands of largely bistable (CpG methylated or unmethylated) regions within neuronal gene bodies, established during mouse dentate gyrus development. Reducing DNA methylation and the proportion of the methylated epialleles at bistable regions compromises novel context-induced neuronal activation. Conversely, increasing methylation and the frequency of the methylated epialleles at bistable regions enhances intrinsic excitability. Single-nucleus profiling reveals enrichment of specific epialleles related to a subset of primarily exonic, bistable regions in activated neurons. Genes displaying both differential methylation and expression in activated neurons define a network of proteins regulating neuronal excitability and structural plasticity. We propose a model in which bistable regions create neuron heterogeneity and constellations of exonic methylation, which may contribute to cell-specific gene expression, excitability, and eligibility to a coding ensemble."	0
"31540874"	"Nascent Pre-rRNA Sorting via Phase Separation Drives the Assembly of Dense Fibrillar Components in the Human Nucleolus.Fibrillar centers (FCs) and dense fibrillar components (DFCs) are essential morphologically distinct sub-regions of mammalian cell nucleoli for rDNA transcription and pre-rRNA processing. Here, we report that a human nucleolus consists of several dozen FC/DFC units, each containing 2-3 transcriptionally active rDNAs at the FC/DFC border. Pre-rRNA processing factors, such as fibrillarin (FBL), form 18-24 clusters that further assemble into the DFC surrounding the FC. Mechanistically, the 5' end of nascent 47S pre-rRNA binds co-transcriptionally to the RNA-binding domain of FBL. FBL diffuses to the DFC, where local self-association via its glycine- and arginine-rich (GAR) domain forms phase-separated clusters to immobilize FBL-interacting pre-rRNA, thus promoting directional traffic of nascent pre-rRNA while facilitating pre-rRNA processing and DFC formation. These results unveil FC/DFC ultrastructures in nucleoli and suggest a conceptual framework for considering nascent RNA sorting using multivalent interactions of their binding proteins."	0
"32023451"	"A Positive Feedback Loop of TET3 and TGF-β1 Promotes Liver Fibrosis.Pathological activation of TGF-β signaling is universal in fibrosis. Aberrant TGF-β signaling in conjunction with transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) into fibrogenic myofibroblasts plays a central role in liver fibrosis. Here we report that the DNA demethylase TET3 is anomalously upregulated in fibrotic livers in both humans and mice. We demonstrate that in human HSCs, TET3 promotes profibrotic gene expression by upregulation of multiple key TGF-β pathway genes, including TGFB1. TET3 binds to target gene promoters, inducing demethylation, which in turn facilitates chromatin remodeling and transcription. We also reveal a positive feedback loop between TGF-β1 and TET3 in both HSCs and hepatocytes. Furthermore, TET3 knockdown ameliorates liver fibrosis in mice. Our results uncover a TET3/TGF-β1 positive feedback loop as a crucial determinant of liver fibrosis and suggest that inhibiting TET3 may represent a therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis and perhaps other fibrotic diseases."	1
"32554467"	"The RAS-interacting chaperone UNC119 drives the RASSF6-MDM2-p53 axis and antagonizes RAS-mediated malignant transformation.The gene encoding the proto-oncogene GTPase RAS is frequently mutated in human cancers. Mutated RAS proteins trigger antiapoptotic and cell-proliferative signals and lead to oncogenesis. However, RAS also induces apoptosis and senescence, which may contribute to the eradication of cells with RAS mutations. We previously reported that Ras association domain family member 6 (RASSF6) binds MDM2 and stabilizes the tumor suppressor p53 and that the active form of KRAS promotes the interaction between RASSF6 and MDM2. We also reported that Unc-119 lipid-binding chaperone (UNC119A), a chaperone of myristoylated proteins, interacts with RASSF6 and regulates RASSF6-mediated apoptosis. In this study, using several human cancer cell lines, quantitative RT-PCR, RNAi-based gene silencing, and immunoprecipitation/-fluorescence and cell biology assays, we report that UNC119A interacts with the active form of KRAS and that the C-terminal modification of KRAS is required for this interaction. We also noted that the hydrophobic pocket of UNC119A, which binds the myristoylated peptides, is not involved in the interaction. We observed that UNC119A promotes the binding of KRAS to RASSF6, enhances the interaction between RASSF6 and MDM2, and induces apoptosis. Conversely, <i>UNC119A</i> silencing promoted soft-agar colony formation, migration, and invasiveness in KRAS-mutated cancer cells. We conclude that UNC119A promotes KRAS-mediated p53-dependent apoptosis via RASSF6 and may play a tumor-suppressive role in cells with KRAS mutations."	1
"32726635"	"Bab2 Functions as an Ecdysone-Responsive Transcriptional Repressor during Drosophila Development.Drosophila development is governed by distinct ecdysone steroid pulses that initiate spatially and temporally defined gene expression programs. The translation of these signals into tissue-specific responses is crucial for metamorphosis, but the mechanisms that confer specificity to systemic ecdysone pulses are far from understood. Here, we identify Bric-à-brac 2 (Bab2) as an ecdysone-responsive transcriptional repressor that controls temporal gene expression during larval to pupal transition. Bab2 is necessary to terminate Salivary gland secretion (Sgs) gene expression, while premature Bab2 expression blocks Sgs genes and causes precocious salivary gland histolysis. The timely expression of bab2 is controlled by the ecdysone-responsive transcription factor Broad, and manipulation of EcR/USP/Broad signaling induces inappropriate Bab2 expression and termination of Sgs gene expression. Bab2 directly binds to Sgs loci in vitro and represses all Sgs genes in vivo. Our work characterizes Bab2 as a temporal regulator of somatic gene expression in response to systemic ecdysone signaling."	1
"32470318"	"Ectosomal PKM2 Promotes HCC by Inducing Macrophage Differentiation and Remodeling the Tumor Microenvironment.Tumor-derived extracellular vesicles are important mediators of cell-to-cell communication during tumorigenesis. Here, we demonstrated that hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)-derived ectosomes remodel the tumor microenvironment to facilitate HCC progression in an ectosomal PKM2-dependent manner. HCC-derived ectosomal PKM2 induced not only metabolic reprogramming in monocytes but also STAT3 phosphorylation in the nucleus to upregulate differentiation-associated transcription factors, leading to monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation and tumor microenvironment remodeling. In HCC cells, sumoylation of PKM2 induced its plasma membrane targeting and subsequent ectosomal excretion via interactions with ARRDC1. The PKM2-ARRDC1 association in HCC was reinforced by macrophage-secreted cytokines/chemokines in a CCL1-CCR8 axis-dependent manner, further facilitating PKM2 excretion from HCC cells to form a feedforward regulatory loop for tumorigenesis. In the clinic, ectosomal PKM2 was clearly detected in the plasma of HCC patients. This study highlights a mechanism by which ectosomal PKM2 remodels the tumor microenvironment and reveals ectosomal PKM2 as a potential diagnostic marker for HCC."	1
"32213324"	"Ultrastructural Details of Mammalian Chromosome Architecture.Over the past decade, 3C-related methods have provided remarkable insights into chromosome folding in vivo. To overcome the limited resolution of prior studies, we extend a recently developed Hi-C variant, Micro-C, to map chromosome architecture at nucleosome resolution in human ESCs and fibroblasts. Micro-C robustly captures known features of chromosome folding including compartment organization, topologically associating domains, and interactions between CTCF binding sites. In addition, Micro-C provides a detailed map of nucleosome positions and localizes contact domain boundaries with nucleosomal precision. Compared to Hi-C, Micro-C exhibits an order of magnitude greater dynamic range, allowing the identification of ∼20,000 additional loops in each cell type. Many newly identified peaks are localized along extrusion stripes and form transitive grids, consistent with their anchors being pause sites impeding cohesin-dependent loop extrusion. Our analyses comprise the highest-resolution maps of chromosome folding in human cells to date, providing a valuable resource for studies of chromosome organization."	0
"31606273"	"Distinct Binding Preferences between Ras and Raf Family Members and the Impact on Oncogenic Ras Signaling.The Ras GTPases are frequently mutated in human cancer, and, although the Raf kinases are essential effectors of Ras signaling, the tumorigenic properties of specific Ras-Raf complexes are not well characterized. Here, we examine the ability of individual Ras and Raf proteins to interact in live cells using bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) technology. We find that C-Raf binds all mutant Ras proteins with high affinity, whereas B-Raf exhibits a striking preference for mutant K-Ras. This selectivity is mediated by the acidic, N-terminal segment of B-Raf and requires the K-Ras polybasic region for high-affinity binding. In addition, we find that C-Raf is critical for mutant H-Ras-driven signaling and that events stabilizing B-Raf/C-Raf dimerization, such as Raf inhibitor treatment or certain B-Raf mutations, can allow mutant H-Ras to engage B-Raf with increased affinity to promote tumorigenesis, thus revealing a previously unappreciated role for C-Raf in potentiating B-Raf function."	1
"31968254"	"Periostin Promotes Colorectal Tumorigenesis through Integrin-FAK-Src Pathway-Mediated YAP/TAZ Activation.Periostin is a multifunctional extracellular matrix protein involved in various inflammatory diseases and tumor metastasis; however, evidence regarding whether and how periostin actively contributes to inflammation-associated tumorigenesis remains elusive. Here, we demonstrate that periostin deficiency significantly inhibits the occurrence of colorectal cancer in azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium-treated mice and in Apc<sup>Min/+</sup> mice. Moreover, periostin deficiency attenuates the severity of colitis and reduces the proliferation of tumor cells. Mechanistically, stromal fibroblast-derived periostin activates FAK-Src kinases through integrin-mediated outside-in signaling, which results in the activation of YAP/TAZ and, subsequently, IL-6 expression in tumor cells. Conversely, IL-6 induces periostin expression in fibroblasts by activating STAT3, which ultimately facilitates colorectal tumor development. These findings provide the evidence that periostin promotes colorectal tumorigenesis, and identify periostin- and IL-6-mediated tumor-stroma interaction as a promising target for treating colitis-associated colorectal cancer."	1
"32402271"	"The Histone Methyltransferase G9a Controls Axon Growth by Targeting the RhoA Signaling Pathway.The generation of axonal and dendritic domains is critical for brain circuitry assembly and physiology. Negative players, such as the RhoA-Rho coiled-coil-associated protein kinase (ROCK) signaling pathway, restrain axon development and polarization. Surprisingly, the genetic control of neuronal polarity has remained largely unexplored. Here, we report that, in primary cultured neurons, expression of the histone methyltransferase G9a and nuclear translocation of its major splicing isoform (G9a/E10+) peak at the time of axon formation. RNAi suppression of G9a/E10+ or pharmacological blockade of G9a constrains neuronal migration, axon initiation, and the establishment of neuronal polarity in situ and in vitro. Inhibition of G9a function upregulates RhoA-ROCK activity by increasing the expression of Lfc, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA. Together, these results identify G9a as a player in neuronal polarization."	1
"32402289"	"Foxo3 Promotes the Differentiation and Function of Follicular Helper T Cells.Follicular helper T cells (Tfhs) are essential for germinal center (GC) B cell maturation and antibody development. However, the intrinsic mechanisms that regulate Tfh differentiation are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the frequencies of Tfhs and GC B cells, as well as interleukin-21 (IL-21) and anti-ovalbumin (OVA) antibodies, are markedly decreased in forkhead box O3 (Foxo3) knockout mice immunized with OVA. Using mixed bone marrow chimeras and lymphocyte-repopulated Rag1<sup>-/-</sup> mice proves that wild-type (WT), but not Foxo3-deficient T cells provoke GC B cell maturation and antibody production. Deficiency of Foxo3 inhibits inducible T cell co-stimulator (ICOS)-induced Tfh differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay results suggest that Foxo3 is able to bind to the IL-21 promoter and regulate IL-21 secretion. In conclusion, our study unveils a critical role of Foxo3 in the regulation of Tfh differentiation and IL-21 production. Modulating Foxo3 activity may be beneficial for enhancing or preventing antibody-mediated immune responses."	1
"32521253"	"TRPM5 Negatively Regulates Calcium-Dependent Responses in Lipopolysaccharide-Stimulated B Lymphocytes.B cells produce high amounts of cytokines and immunoglobulins in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. Calcium signaling cascades are critically involved in cytokine production of T cells, and the cytosolic calcium concentration is regulated by calcium-activated monovalent cation channels (CAMs). Calcium signaling is also implicated in B cell activation; however, its involvement in the cytokine production of LPS-stimulated B cells remains less well characterized. Here, we show that the transient receptor potential melastatin 5 channel (TRPM5), which is one of the CAMs, negatively modulates calcium signaling, thereby regulating LPS-induced proliferative and inflammatory responses by B cells. LPS-stimulated B cells of Trpm5-deficient mice exhibit an increased cytosolic calcium concentration, leading to enhanced proliferation and the production of the inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 and CXCL10. Furthermore, Trpm5-deficient mice show an exacerbation of endotoxic shock with high mortality. Our findings demonstrate the importance of TRPM5-dependent regulatory mechanisms in LPS-induced calcium signaling of splenic B cells."	0
"31968251"	"Inhibition of EZH2 Catalytic Activity Selectively Targets a Metastatic Subpopulation in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer.Epigenetic changes are increasingly being appreciated as key events in breast cancer progression. However, breast cancer subtype-specific epigenetic regulation remains poorly investigated. Here we report that EZH2 is a leading candidate of epigenetic modulators associated with the TNBC subtype and that it predicts poor overall survival in TNBC patients. We demonstrate that specific pharmacological or genetic inhibition of EZH2 catalytic activity impairs distant metastasis. We further define a specific EZH2<sup>high</sup> population with enhanced invasion, mammosphere formation, and metastatic potential that exhibits marked sensitivity to EZH2 inhibition. Mechanistically, EZH2 inhibition differentiates EZH2<sup>high</sup> basal cells to a luminal-like phenotype by derepressing GATA3 and renders them sensitive to endocrine therapy. Furthermore, dissection of human TNBC heterogeneity shows that EZH2<sup>high</sup> basal-like 1 and mesenchymal subtypes have exquisite sensitivity to EZH2 inhibition compared with the EZH2<sup>low</sup> luminal androgen receptor subtype. These preclinical findings provide a rationale for clinical development of EZH2 as a targeted therapy against TNBC metastasis."	0
"31402097"	"Osh Proteins Control Nanoscale Lipid Organization Necessary for PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> Synthesis.The plasma membrane (PM) is composed of a complex lipid mixture that forms heterogeneous membrane environments. Yet, how small-scale lipid organization controls physiological events at the PM remains largely unknown. Here, we show that ORP-related Osh lipid exchange proteins are critical for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>], a key regulator of dynamic events at the PM. In real-time assays, we find that unsaturated phosphatidylserine (PS) and sterols, both Osh protein ligands, synergistically stimulate phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) activity. Biophysical FRET analyses suggest an unconventional co-distribution of unsaturated PS and phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) species in sterol-containing membrane bilayers. Moreover, using in vivo imaging approaches and molecular dynamics simulations, we show that Osh protein-mediated unsaturated PI4P and PS membrane lipid organization is sensed by the PIP5K specificity loop. Thus, ORP family members create a nanoscale membrane lipid environment that drives PIP5K activity and PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> synthesis that ultimately controls global PM organization and dynamics."	1
"32268101"	"Dysfunction of Persisting β Cells Is a Key Feature of Early Type 2 Diabetes Pathogenesis.Type 2 diabetes is characterized by peripheral insulin resistance and insufficient insulin release from pancreatic islet β cells. However, the role and sequence of β cell dysfunction and mass loss for reduced insulin levels in type 2 diabetes pathogenesis are unclear. Here, we exploit freshly explanted pancreas specimens from metabolically phenotyped surgical patients using an in situ tissue slice technology. This approach allows assessment of β cell volume and function within pancreas samples of metabolically stratified individuals. We show that, in tissue of pre-diabetic, impaired glucose-tolerant subjects, β cell volume is unchanged, but function significantly deteriorates, exhibiting increased basal release and loss of first-phase insulin secretion. In individuals with type 2 diabetes, function within the sustained β cell volume further declines. These results indicate that dysfunction of persisting β cells is a key factor in the early development and progression of type 2 diabetes, representing a major target for diabetes prevention and therapy."	0
"32668256"	"Modeling Secondary Iron Overload Cardiomyopathy with Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Cardiomyocytes.Excessive iron accumulation in the heart causes iron overload cardiomyopathy (IOC), which initially presents as diastolic dysfunction and arrhythmia but progresses to systolic dysfunction and end-stage heart failure when left untreated. However, the mechanisms of iron-related cardiac injury and how iron accumulates in human cardiomyocytes are not well understood. Herein, using human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs), we model IOC and screen for drugs to rescue the iron overload phenotypes. Human iPSC-CMs under excess iron exposure recapitulate early-stage IOC, including oxidative stress, arrhythmia, and contractile dysfunction. We find that iron-induced changes in calcium kinetics play a critical role in dysregulation of CM functions. We identify that ebselen, a selective divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) inhibitor and antioxidant, could prevent the observed iron overload phenotypes, supporting the role of DMT1 in iron uptake into the human myocardium. These results suggest that ebselen may be a potential preventive and therapeutic agent for treating patients with secondary iron overload."	0
"32320654"	"Cellular Importin-α3 Expression Dynamics in the Lung Regulate Antiviral Response Pathways against Influenza A Virus Infection.Importin-α adaptor proteins orchestrate dynamic nuclear transport processes involved in cellular homeostasis. Here, we show that importin-α3, one of the main NF-κB transporters, is the most abundantly expressed classical nuclear transport factor in the mammalian respiratory tract. Importin-α3 promoter activity is regulated by TNF-α-induced NF-κB in a concentration-dependent manner. High-level TNF-α-inducing highly pathogenic avian influenza A viruses (HPAIVs) isolated from fatal human cases harboring human-type polymerase signatures (PB2 627K, 701N) significantly downregulate importin-α3 mRNA expression in primary lung cells. Importin-α3 depletion is restored upon back-mutating the HPAIV polymerase into an avian-type signature (PB2 627E, 701D) that can no longer induce high TNF-α levels. Importin-α3-deficient mice show reduced NF-κB-activated antiviral gene expression and increased influenza lethality. Thus, importin-α3 plays a key role in antiviral immunity against influenza. Lifting the bottleneck in importin-α3 availability in the lung might provide a new strategy to combat respiratory virus infections."	1
"32814054"	"Mn<sup>2+</sup> Directly Activates cGAS and Structural Analysis Suggests Mn<sup>2+</sup> Induces a Noncanonical Catalytic Synthesis of 2'3'-cGAMP.DNA binding allosterically activates the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP [cGAMP] synthase) to synthesize 2'3'-cGAMP, using Mg<sup>2+</sup> as the metal cofactor that catalyzes two nucleotidyl-transferring reactions. We previously found that Mn<sup>2+</sup> potentiates cGAS activation, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we report that Mn<sup>2+</sup> directly activates cGAS. Structural analysis reveals that Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS undergoes globally similar conformational changes to DNA-activated cGAS but forms a unique η1 helix to widen the catalytic pocket, allowing substrate entry and cGAMP synthesis. Strikingly, in Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS, the linear intermediates pppGpG and pGpA take an inverted orientation in the active pocket, suggesting a noncanonical but accelerated cGAMP cyclization without substrate flip-over. Moreover, unlike the octahedral coordination around Mg<sup>2+</sup>, the two catalytic Mn<sup>2+</sup> are coordinated by triphosphate moiety of the inverted substrate, independent of the catalytic triad residues. Our findings thus uncover Mn<sup>2+</sup> as a cGAS activator that initiates noncanonical 2'3'-cGAMP synthesis."	1
"31399345"	"RNA 5-Methylcytosine Facilitates the Maternal-to-Zygotic Transition by Preventing Maternal mRNA Decay.The maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT) is a conserved and fundamental process during which the maternal environment is converted to an environment of embryonic-driven development through dramatic reprogramming. However, how maternally supplied transcripts are dynamically regulated during MZT remains largely unknown. Herein, through genome-wide profiling of RNA 5-methylcytosine (m<sup>5</sup>C) modification in zebrafish early embryos, we found that m<sup>5</sup>C-modified maternal mRNAs display higher stability than non-m<sup>5</sup>C-modified mRNAs during MZT. We discovered that Y-box binding protein 1 (Ybx1) preferentially recognizes m<sup>5</sup>C-modified mRNAs through π-π interactions with a key residue, Trp45, in Ybx1's cold shock domain (CSD), which plays essential roles in maternal mRNA stability and early embryogenesis of zebrafish. Together with the mRNA stabilizer Pabpc1a, Ybx1 promotes the stability of its target mRNAs in an m<sup>5</sup>C-dependent manner. Our study demonstrates an unexpected mechanism of RNA m<sup>5</sup>C-regulated maternal mRNA stabilization during zebrafish MZT, highlighting the critical role of m<sup>5</sup>C mRNA modification in early development."	1
"32294429"	"Progesterone Receptor Serves the Ovary as a Trigger of Ovulation and a Terminator of Inflammation.Ovulation is triggered by the gonadotropin surge that induces the expression of two key genes, progesterone receptor (Pgr) and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2), in the granulosa cells of preovulatory follicles. Their gene products PGR and PTGS2 activate two separate pathways that are both essential for successful ovulation. Here, we show that the PGR plays an additional essential role: it attenuates ovulatory inflammation by diminishing the gonadotropin surge-induced Ptgs2 expression. PGR indirectly terminates Ptgs2 expression and PGE2 synthesis in granulosa cells by inhibiting the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), a transcription factor required for Ptgs2 expression. When the expression of PGR is ablated in granulosa cells, the ovary undergoes a hyperinflammatory condition manifested by excessive PGE2 synthesis, immune cell infiltration, oxidative damage, and neoplastic transformation of ovarian cells. The PGR-driven termination of PTGS2 expression may protect the ovary from ovulatory inflammation."	1
"32115407"	"Coordination of germ layer lineage choice by TET1 during primed pluripotency.Gastrulation in the early postimplantation stage mammalian embryo begins when epiblast cells ingress to form the primitive streak or develop as the embryonic ectoderm. The DNA dioxygenase Tet1 is highly expressed in the epiblast and yet continues to regulate lineage specification during gastrulation when its expression is diminished. Here, we show how Tet1 plays a pivotal role upstream of germ layer lineage bifurcation. During the transition from naive pluripotency to lineage priming, a global reconfiguration redistributes Tet1 from Oct4-cobound promoters to distal regulatory elements at lineage differentiation genes, which are distinct from high-affinity sites engaged by Oct4. An altered chromatin landscape in <i>Tet1</i>-deficient primed epiblast-like cells is associated with enhanced Oct4 expression and binding to Nodal and Wnt target genes, resulting in collaborative signals that enhance mesendodermal and inhibit neuroectodermal gene expression during lineage segregation. A permissive role for Tet1 in neural fate induction involves Zic2-dependent engagement at neural target genes at lineage priming, is dependent on the signaling environment during gastrulation, and impacts neural tube closure after gastrulation. Our findings provide mechanistic information for epigenetic integration of pluripotency and signal-induced differentiation cues."	0
"32268080"	"A Targeted Multi-omic Analysis Approach Measures Protein Expression and Low-Abundance Transcripts on the Single-Cell Level.High-throughput single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has become a frequently used tool to assess immune cell heterogeneity. Recently, the combined measurement of RNA and protein expression was developed, commonly known as cellular indexing of transcriptomes and epitopes by sequencing (CITE-seq). Acquisition of protein expression data along with transcriptome data resolves some of the limitations inherent to only assessing transcripts but also nearly doubles the sequencing read depth required per single cell. Furthermore, there is still a paucity of analysis tools to visualize combined transcript-protein datasets. Here, we describe a targeted transcriptomics approach that combines an analysis of over 400 genes with simultaneous measurement of over 40 proteins on 2 × 10<sup>4</sup> cells in a single experiment. This targeted approach requires only about one-tenth of the read depth compared to a whole-transcriptome approach while retaining high sensitivity for low abundance transcripts. To analyze these multi-omic datasets, we adapted one-dimensional soli expression by nonlinear stochastic embedding (One-SENSE) for intuitive visualization of protein-transcript relationships on a single-cell level."	0
"32367047"	"Myeloid PTEN promotes chemotherapy-induced NLRP3-inflammasome activation and antitumour immunity.PTEN is a dual-specificity phosphatase that is frequently mutated in human cancer, and its deficiency in cancer has been associated with therapy resistance and poor survival. Although the intrinsic tumour-suppressor function of PTEN has been well established, evidence of its role in the tumour immune microenvironment is lacking. Here, we show that chemotherapy-induced antitumour immune responses and tumour suppression rely on myeloid-cell PTEN, which is essential for chemotherapy-induced activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and antitumour immunity. PTEN directly interacts with and dephosphorylates NLRP3 to enable NLRP3-ASC interaction, inflammasome assembly and activation. Importantly, supplementation of IL-1β restores chemotherapy sensitivity in mouse myeloid cells with a PTEN deficiency. Clinically, chemotherapy-induced IL-1β production and antitumour immunity in patients with cancer is correlated with PTEN expression in myeloid cells, but not tumour cells. Our results demonstrate that myeloid PTEN can determine chemotherapy responsiveness by promoting NLRP3-dependent antitumour immunity and suggest that myeloid PTEN might be a potential biomarker to predict chemotherapy responses."	1
"32482893"	"A-kinase-anchoring protein 1 (dAKAP1)-based signaling complexes coordinate local protein synthesis at the mitochondrial surface.Compartmentalization of macromolecules is a ubiquitous molecular mechanism that drives numerous cellular functions. The appropriate organization of enzymes in space and time enables the precise transmission and integration of intracellular signals. Molecular scaffolds constrain signaling enzymes to influence the regional modulation of these physiological processes. Mitochondrial targeting of protein kinases and protein phosphatases provides a means to locally control the phosphorylation status and action of proteins on the surface of this organelle. Dual-specificity protein kinase A anchoring protein 1 (dAKAP1) is a multivalent binding protein that targets protein kinase A (PKA), RNAs, and other signaling enzymes to the outer mitochondrial membrane. Many AKAPs recruit a diverse set of binding partners that coordinate a broad range of cellular processes. Here, results of MS and biochemical analyses reveal that dAKAP1 anchors additional components, including the ribonucleoprotein granule components La-related protein 4 (LARP4) and polyadenylate-binding protein 1 (PABPC1). Local translation of mRNAs at organelles is a means to spatially control the synthesis of proteins. RNA-Seq data demonstrate that dAKAP1 binds mRNAs encoding proteins required for mitochondrial metabolism, including succinate dehydrogenase. Functional studies suggest that the loss of dAKAP1-RNA interactions reduces mitochondrial electron transport chain activity. Hence, dAKAP1 plays a previously unappreciated role as a molecular interface between second messenger signaling and local protein synthesis machinery."	1
"30595439"	"Helicase Subunit Cdc45 Targets the Checkpoint Kinase Rad53 to Both Replication Initiation and Elongation Complexes after Fork Stalling.Across eukaryotes, disruption of DNA replication causes an S phase checkpoint response, which regulates multiple processes, including inhibition of replication initiation and fork stabilization. How these events are coordinated remains poorly understood. Here, we show that the replicative helicase component Cdc45 targets the checkpoint kinase Rad53 to distinct replication complexes in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rad53 binds to forkhead-associated (FHA) interaction motifs in an unstructured loop region of Cdc45, which is phosphorylated by Rad53 itself, and this interaction is necessary for the inhibition of origin firing through Sld3. Cdc45 also recruits Rad53 to stalled replication forks, which we demonstrate is important for the response to replication stress. Finally, we show that a Cdc45 mutation found in patients with Meier-Gorlin syndrome disrupts the functional interaction with Rad53 in yeast. Together, we present a single mechanism by which a checkpoint kinase targets replication initiation and elongation complexes, which may be relevant to human disease."	1
"32579932"	"mTOR Signaling and SREBP Activity Increase FADS2 Expression and Can Activate Sapienate Biosynthesis.Cancer cells display an increased plasticity in their lipid metabolism, which includes the conversion of palmitate to sapienate via the enzyme fatty acid desaturase 2 (FADS2). We find that FADS2 expression correlates with mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) activity across multiple cancer types and is prognostic in some cancer types. Accordingly, activating mTOR signaling by deleting tuberous sclerosis complex 2 (Tsc2) or overexpression of SREBP-1/2 is sufficient to increase FADS2 mRNA expression and sapienate metabolism in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and U87 glioblastoma cells, respectively. Conversely, inhibiting mTOR signaling decreases FADS2 expression and sapienate biosynthesis in MEFs with Tsc2 deletion, HUH7 hepatocellular carcinoma cells, and orthotopic HUH7 liver xenografts. In conclusion, we show that mTOR signaling and SREBP activity are sufficient to activate sapienate metabolism by increasing FADS2 expression. Consequently, targeting mTOR signaling can reduce sapienate metabolism in vivo."	1
"32492417"	"Epigenetic Reprogramming of Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts Deregulates Glucose Metabolism and Facilitates Progression of Breast Cancer.The mechanistic contributions of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in breast cancer progression remain to be fully understood. While altered glucose metabolism in CAFs could fuel cancer cells, how such metabolic reprogramming emerges and is sustained needs further investigation. Studying fibroblasts isolated from patients with benign breast tissues and breast cancer, in conjunction with multiple animal models, we demonstrate that CAFs exhibit a metabolic shift toward lactate and pyruvate production and fuel biosynthetic pathways of cancer cells. The depletion or suppression of the lactate production of CAFs alter the tumor metabolic profile and impede tumor growth. The glycolytic phenotype of the CAFs is in part sustained through epigenetic reprogramming of HIF-1α and glycolytic enzymes. Hypoxia induces epigenetic reprogramming of normal fibroblasts, resulting in a pro-glycolytic, CAF-like transcriptome. Our findings suggest that the glucose metabolism of CAFs evolves during tumor progression, and their breast cancer-promoting phenotype is partly mediated by oxygen-dependent epigenetic modifications."	0
"30472189"	"Nucleosome Turnover Regulates Histone Methylation Patterns over the Genome.Recent studies have indicated that nucleosome turnover is rapid, occurring several times per cell cycle. To access the effect of nucleosome turnover on the epigenetic landscape, we investigated H3K79 methylation, which is produced by a single methyltransferase (Dot1l) with no known demethylase. Using chemical-induced proximity (CIP), we find that the valency of H3K79 methylation (mono-, di-, and tri-) is determined by nucleosome turnover rates. Furthermore, propagation of this mark is predicted by nucleosome turnover simulations over the genome and accounts for the asymmetric distribution of H3K79me toward the transcriptional unit. More broadly, a meta-analysis of other conserved histone modifications demonstrates that nucleosome turnover models predict both valency and chromosomal propagation of methylation marks. Based on data from worms, flies, and mice, we propose that the turnover of modified nucleosomes is a general means of propagation of epigenetic marks and a determinant of methylation valence."	0
"32527723"	"Structure and function of a flavin-dependent S-monooxygenase from garlic (<i>Allium sativum</i>).Allicin is a component of the characteristic smell and flavor of garlic (<i>Allium sativum</i>). A flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO) produced by <i>A. sativum</i> (AsFMO) was previously proposed to oxidize <i>S</i>-allyl-l-cysteine (SAC) to alliin, an allicin precursor. Here, we present a kinetic and structural characterization of AsFMO that suggests a possible contradiction to this proposal. Results of steady-state kinetic analyses revealed that AsFMO exhibited negligible activity with SAC; however, the enzyme was highly active with l-cysteine, <i>N</i>-acetyl-l-cysteine, and allyl mercaptan. We found that allyl mercaptan with NADPH was the preferred substrate-cofactor combination. Rapid-reaction kinetic analyses showed that NADPH binds tightly (<i>K<sub>D</sub></i> of ∼2 μm) to AsFMO and that the hydride transfer occurs with pro-<i>R</i> stereospecificity. We detected the formation of a long-wavelength band when AsFMO was reduced by NADPH, probably representing the formation of a charge-transfer complex. In the absence of substrate, the reduced enzyme, in complex with NADP<sup>+</sup>, reacted with oxygen and formed an intermediate with a spectrum characteristic of C4a-hydroperoxyflavin, which decays several orders of magnitude more slowly than the <i>k</i><sub>cat</sub> The presence of substrate enhanced C4a-hydroperoxyflavin formation and, upon hydroxylation, oxidation occurred with a rate constant similar to the <i>k</i><sub>cat</sub> The structure of AsFMO complexed with FAD at 2.08-Å resolution features two domains for binding of FAD and NADPH, representative of class B flavin monooxygenases. These biochemical and structural results are consistent with AsFMO being an S-monooxygenase involved in allicin biosynthesis through direct formation of sulfenic acid and not SAC oxidation."	0
"32294449"	"Cell Metabolic Alterations due to Mcph1 Mutation in Microcephaly.A distinctive feature of neocortical development is the highly coordinated production of different progenitor cell subtypes, which are critical for ensuring adequate neurogenic outcome and the development of normal neocortical size. To further understand the mechanisms that underlie neocortical growth, we focused our studies on the microcephaly gene Mcph1, and we report here that Mcph1 (1) exerts its functions in rapidly dividing apical radial glial cells (aRGCs) during mouse neocortical development stages that precede indirect neurogenesis; (2) is expressed at mitochondria; and (3) controls the proper proliferation and survival of RGCs, potentially through crosstalk with cellular metabolic pathways involving the stimulation of mitochondrial activity via VDAC1/GRP75 and AKT/HK2/VDAC1 and glutaminolysis via ATF4/PCK2. We currently report the description of a MCPH-gene implication in the interplay between bioenergetic pathways and neocortical growth, thus pointing to alterations of cellular metabolic pathways, in particular glutaminolysis, as a possible cause of microcephalic pathogenesis."	1
"30846318"	"Probing the Global Cellular Responses to Lipotoxicity Caused by Saturated Fatty Acids.Excessive levels of saturated fatty acids are toxic to cells, although the basis for this lipotoxicity remains incompletely understood. Here, we analyzed the transcriptome, lipidome, and genetic interactions of human leukemia cells exposed to palmitate. Palmitate treatment increased saturated glycerolipids, accompanied by a transcriptional stress response, including upregulation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response. A comprehensive genome-wide short hairpin RNA (shRNA) screen identified >350 genes modulating lipotoxicity. Among previously unknown genetic modifiers of lipotoxicity, depletion of RNF213, a putative ubiquitin ligase mutated in Moyamoya vascular disease, protected cells from lipotoxicity. On a broader level, integration of our comprehensive datasets revealed that changes in di-saturated glycerolipids, but not other lipid classes, are central to lipotoxicity in this model. Consistent with this, inhibition of ER-localized glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase activity protected from all aspects of lipotoxicity. Identification of genes modulating the response to saturated fatty acids may reveal novel therapeutic strategies for treating metabolic diseases linked to lipotoxicity."	0
"32937124"	"The Natural Compound Notopterol Binds and Targets JAK2/3 to Ameliorate Inflammation and Arthritis.The traditional Chinese medicinal herb Notopterygium incisum Ting ex H.T. Chang has anti-rheumatism activity, and a mass spectrometry assay of patients' serum after administration of the herb revealed that notopterol is the most abundant component enriched. However, the functions of notopterol and its molecular target in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment remain unknown. Here, we show in different RA mouse strains that both oral and intraperitoneal administration of notopterol result in significant therapeutic effects. Mechanistically, notopterol directly binds Janus kinase (JAK)2 and JAK3 kinase domains to inhibit JAK/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) activation, leading to reduced production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Critically, combination therapy using both notopterol and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker results in enhanced therapeutic effects compared to using TNF blocker alone. We demonstrate that notopterol ameliorates RA pathology by targeting JAK-STAT signaling, raising the possibility that notopterol could be effective in treating other diseases characterized by aberrant JAK-STAT signaling pathway."	1
"32571875"	"PRL3 pseudophosphatase activity is necessary and sufficient to promote metastatic growth.Phosphatases of regenerating liver (PRLs) are markers of cancer and promote tumor growth. They have been implicated in a variety of biochemical pathways but the physiologically relevant target of phosphatase activity has eluded 20 years of investigation. Here, we show that PRL3 catalytic activity is not required in a mouse model of metastasis. PRL3 binds and inhibits CNNM4, a membrane protein associated with magnesium transport. Analysis of PRL3 mutants specifically defective in either CNNM-binding or phosphatase activity demonstrate that CNNM binding is necessary and sufficient to promote tumor metastasis. As PRLs do have phosphatase activity, they are in fact <i>pseudo</i>-pseudophosphatases. Phosphatase activity leads to formation of phosphocysteine, which blocks CNNM binding and may play a regulatory role. We show levels of PRL cysteine phosphorylation vary in response to culture conditions and in different tissues. Examination of related protein phosphatases shows the stability of phosphocysteine is a unique and evolutionarily conserved property of PRLs. The demonstration that PRL3 functions as a pseudophosphatase has important ramifications for the design of PRL inhibitors for cancer."	1
"32160549"	"Neurokinin-1 Receptor Signaling Is Required for Efficient Ca<sup>2+</sup> Flux in T-Cell-Receptor-Activated T Cells.Efficient Ca<sup>2+</sup> flux induced during cognate T cell activation requires signaling the T cell receptor (TCR) and unidentified G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). T cells express the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R), a GPCR that mediates Ca<sup>2+</sup> flux in excitable and non-excitable cells. However, the role of the NK1R in TCR signaling remains unknown. We show that the NK1R and its agonists, the neuropeptides substance P and hemokinin-1, co-localize within the immune synapse during cognate activation of T cells. Simultaneous TCR and NK1R stimulation is necessary for efficient Ca<sup>2+</sup> flux and Ca<sup>2+</sup>-dependent signaling that sustains the survival of activated T cells and helper 1 (Th1) and Th17 bias. In a model of contact dermatitis, mice with T cells deficient in NK1R or its agonists exhibit impaired cellular immunity, due to high mortality of activated T cells. We demonstrate an effect of the NK1R in T cells that is relevant for immunotherapies based on pro-inflammatory neuropeptides and its receptors."	0
"31995761"	"The ARK Assay Is a Sensitive and Versatile Method for the Global Detection of DNA-Protein Crosslinks.DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are a frequent form of DNA lesion and are strongly inhibitive in diverse DNA transactions. Despite recent developments, the biochemical detection of DPCs remains a limiting factor for the in-depth mechanistic understanding of DPC repair. Here, we develop a sensitive and versatile assay, designated ARK, for the quantitative analysis of DPCs in cells. ARK uses sequential chaotropic and detergent-based isolation of DPCs and substantially enhances sample purity, resulting in a 5-fold increase in detection sensitivity and a 10-fold reduction in background reading. We validate the ARK assay with genetic mutants with established deficiencies in DPC repair and demonstrate its robustness by using common DPC-inducing reagents, including formaldehyde, camptothecin, and etoposide. In addition, we show that the Fanconi anemia pathway contributes to the repair of DPCs. Thus, ARK is expected to facilitate various studies aimed at understanding both fundamental biology and translational applications of DNA-protein crosslink repair."	0
"32846135"	"Landscape of Exhausted Virus-Specific CD8 T Cells in Chronic LCMV Infection.A hallmark of chronic infections is the presence of exhausted CD8 T cells, characterized by a distinct transcriptional program compared with functional effector or memory cells, co-expression of multiple inhibitory receptors, and impaired effector function, mainly driven by recurrent T cell receptor engagement. In the context of chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection in mice, most studies focused on studying splenic virus-specific CD8 T cells. Here, we provide a detailed characterization of exhausted CD8 T cells isolated from six different tissues during established LCMV infection, using single-cell RNA sequencing. Our data reveal that exhausted cells are heterogeneous, adopt organ-specific transcriptomic profiles, and can be divided into five main functional subpopulations: advanced exhaustion, effector-like, intermediate, proliferating, or memory-like. Adoptive transfer experiments showed that these phenotypes are plastic, suggesting that the tissue microenvironment has a major impact in shaping the phenotype and function of virus-specific CD8 T cells during chronic infection."	0
"31940478"	"Niemann-Pick C1 Heterogeneity of Bat Cells Controls Filovirus Tropism.Fruit bats are suspected to be natural hosts of filoviruses, including Ebola virus (EBOV) and Marburg virus (MARV). Interestingly, however, previous studies suggest that these viruses have different tropisms depending on the bat species. Here, we show a molecular basis underlying the host-range restriction of filoviruses. We find that bat-derived cell lines FBKT1 and ZFBK13-76E show preferential susceptibility to EBOV and MARV, respectively, whereas the other bat cell lines tested are similarly infected with both viruses. In FBKT1 and ZFBK13-76E, unique amino acid (aa) sequences are found in the Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) protein, one of the cellular receptors interacting with the filovirus glycoprotein (GP). These aa residues, as well as a few aa differences between EBOV and MARV GPs, are crucial for the differential susceptibility to filoviruses. Taken together, our findings indicate that the heterogeneity of bat NPC1 orthologs is an important factor controlling filovirus species-specific host tropism."	0
"31735641"	"Cancer-Derived Succinate Promotes Macrophage Polarization and Cancer Metastasis via Succinate Receptor.Macrophages form a major cell population in the tumor microenvironment. They can be activated and polarized into tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) by the tumor-derived soluble molecules to promote tumor progression and metastasis. Here, we used comparative metabolomics coupled with biochemical and animal studies to show that cancer cells release succinate into their microenvironment and activate succinate receptor (SUCNR1) signaling to polarize macrophages into TAM. Furthermore, the results from in vitro and in vivo studies revealed that succinate promotes not only cancer cell migration and invasion but also cancer metastasis. These effects are mediated by SUCNR1-triggered PI3K-hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) axis. Compared with healthy subjects and tumor-free lung tissues, serum succinate levels and lung cancer SUCNR1 expression were elevated in lung cancer patients, suggesting an important clinical relevance. Collectively, our findings indicate that the secreted tumor-derived succinate belongs to a novel class of cancer progression factors, controlling TAM polarization and promoting tumorigenic signaling."	1
"32320653"	"The Autophagy-Initiating Kinase ULK1 Controls RIPK1-Mediated Cell Death.Autophagy, apoptosis, and necroptosis are stress responses governing the ultimate fate of a cell. However, the crosstalk between these cellular stress responses is not entirely understood. Especially, it is not clear whether the autophagy-initiating kinase ULK1 and the cell-death-regulating kinase RIPK1 are involved in this potential crosstalk. Here, we identify RIPK1 as a substrate of ULK1. ULK1-dependent phosphorylation of RIPK1 reduces complex IIb/necrosome assembly and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced cell death, whereas deprivation of ULK1 enhances TNF-induced cell death. We observe that ULK1 phosphorylates multiple sites of RIPK1, but it appears that especially phosphorylation of S357 within the intermediate domain of RIPK1 mediates this cell-death-inhibiting effect. We propose that ULK1 is a regulator of RIPK1-mediated cell death."	1
"32203422"	"piRNA-unbound PIWIL1 promotes metastasis."	0
"32807903"	"Decapping enzyme 1A breaks X-chromosome symmetry by controlling Tsix elongation and RNA turnover.How allelic asymmetry is generated remains a major unsolved problem in epigenetics. Here we model the problem using X-chromosome inactivation by developing ""BioRBP"", an enzymatic RNA-proteomic method that enables probing of low-abundance interactions and an allelic RNA-depletion and -tagging system. We identify messenger RNA-decapping enzyme 1A (DCP1A) as a key regulator of Tsix, a noncoding RNA implicated in allelic choice through X-chromosome pairing. DCP1A controls Tsix half-life and transcription elongation. Depleting DCP1A causes accumulation of X-X pairs and perturbs the transition to monoallelic Tsix expression required for Xist upregulation. While ablating DCP1A causes hyperpairing, forcing Tsix degradation resolves pairing and enables Xist upregulation. We link pairing to allelic partitioning of CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) and show that tethering DCP1A to one Tsix allele is sufficient to drive monoallelic Xist expression. Thus, DCP1A flips a bistable switch for the mutually exclusive determination of active and inactive Xs."	1
"32407673"	"Using Chemical Epigenetics to Target Cancer.Transcription is epigenetically regulated by the orchestrated function of chromatin-binding proteins that tightly control the expression of master transcription factors, effectors, and supportive housekeeping genes required for establishing and propagating the normal and malignant cell state. Rapid advances in chemical biology and functional genomics have facilitated exploration of targeting epigenetic proteins, yielding effective strategies to target transcription while reducing toxicities to untransformed cells. Here, we review recent developments in conventional active site and allosteric inhibitors, peptidomimetics, and novel proteolysis-targeted chimera (PROTAC) technology that have deepened our understanding of transcriptional processes and led to promising preclinical compounds for therapeutic translation, particularly in cancer."	0
"30554948"	"The F-Box Domain-Dependent Activity of EMI1 Regulates PARPi Sensitivity in Triple-Negative Breast Cancers.The BRCA1-BRCA2-RAD51 axis is essential for homologous recombination repair (HRR) and is frequently disrupted in breast cancers. PARP inhibitors (PARPis) are used clinically to treat BRCA-mutated breast tumors. Using a genetic screen, we identified EMI1 as a modulator of PARPi sensitivity in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells. This function requires the F-box domain of EMI1, through which EMI1 assembles a canonical SCF ubiquitin ligase complex that constitutively targets RAD51 for degradation. In response to genotoxic stress, CHK1-mediated phosphorylation of RAD51 counteracts EMI1-dependent degradation by enhancing RAD51's affinity for BRCA2, leading to RAD51 accumulation. Inhibition of RAD51 degradation restores HRR in BRCA1-depleted cells. Human breast cancer samples display an inverse correlation between EMI1 and RAD51 protein levels. A subset of BRCA1-deficient TNBC cells develop resistance to PARPi by downregulating EMI1 and restoring RAD51-dependent HRR. Notably, reconstitution of EMI1 expression reestablishes PARPi sensitivity both in cellular systems and in an orthotopic mouse model."	1
"31604602"	"Cas9 Allosteric Inhibition by the Anti-CRISPR Protein AcrIIA6.In the arms race against bacteria, bacteriophages have evolved diverse anti-CRISPR proteins (Acrs) that block CRISPR-Cas immunity. Acrs play key roles in the molecular coevolution of bacteria with their predators, use a variety of mechanisms of action, and provide tools to regulate Cas-based genome manipulation. Here, we present structural and functional analyses of AcrIIA6, an Acr from virulent phages, exploring its unique anti-CRISPR action. Our cryo-EM structures and functional data of AcrIIA6 binding to Streptococcus thermophilus Cas9 (St1Cas9) show that AcrIIA6 acts as an allosteric inhibitor and induces St1Cas9 dimerization. AcrIIA6 reduces St1Cas9 binding affinity for DNA and prevents DNA binding within cells. The PAM and AcrIIA6 recognition sites are structurally close and allosterically linked. Mechanistically, AcrIIA6 affects the St1Cas9 conformational dynamics associated with PAM binding. Finally, we identify a natural St1Cas9 variant resistant to AcrIIA6 illustrating Acr-driven mutational escape and molecular diversification of Cas9 proteins."	0
"30926242"	"Distinct USP25 and USP28 Oligomerization States Regulate Deubiquitinating Activity.The evolutionarily related deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) USP25 and USP28 comprise an identical overall domain architecture but are functionally non-redundant: USP28 stabilizes c-MYC and other nuclear proteins, and USP25 regulates inflammatory TRAF signaling. We here compare molecular features of USP25 and USP28. Active enzymes form distinctively shaped dimers, with a dimerizing insertion spatially separating independently active catalytic domains. In USP25, but not USP28, two dimers can form an autoinhibited tetramer, where a USP25-specific, conserved insertion sequence blocks ubiquitin binding. In full-length enzymes, a C-terminal domain with a previously unknown fold has no impact on oligomerization, but N-terminal regions affect the dimer-tetramer equilibrium in vitro. We confirm oligomeric states of USP25 and USP28 in cells and show that modulating oligomerization affects substrate stabilization in accordance with in vitro activity data. Our work highlights how regions outside of the catalytic domain enable a conceptually intriguing interplay of DUB oligomerization and activity."	0
"32209480"	"The Zonal Organization of Odorant Receptor Gene Choice in the Main Olfactory Epithelium of the Mouse.A mature olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) of the main olfactory epithelium (MOE) typically expresses one allele of one odorant receptor (OR) gene. It is widely thought that the great majority of the 1,141 intact mouse OR genes are expressed in one of four MOE zones (or bands or stripes), which are largely non-overlapping. Here, we develop a multiplex method to map, in 3D and MOE-wide, the expression areas of multiple OR genes in individual, non-genetically modified mice by three-color fluorescence in situ hybridization, semi-automated image segmentation, and 3D reconstruction. We classify the expression areas of 68 OR genes into 9 zones. These zones are highly overlapping and strikingly complex when viewed in 3D reconstructions. There could well be more zones. We propose that zones reflect distinct OSN types that are each restricted in their choice to a subset of the OR gene repertoire."	0
"32668250"	"Macrophage Exosomes Resolve Atherosclerosis by Regulating Hematopoiesis and Inflammation via MicroRNA Cargo.Developing strategies that promote the resolution of vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis remains a major therapeutic challenge. Here, we show that exosomes produced by naive bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM-exo) contain anti-inflammatory microRNA-99a/146b/378a that are further increased in exosomes produced by BMDM polarized with IL-4 (BMDM-IL-4-exo). These exosomal microRNAs suppress inflammation by targeting NF-κB and TNF-α signaling and foster M2 polarization in recipient macrophages. Repeated infusions of BMDM-IL-4-exo into Apoe<sup>-/-</sup> mice fed a Western diet reduce excessive hematopoiesis in the bone marrow and thereby the number of myeloid cells in the circulation and macrophages in aortic root lesions. This also leads to a reduction in necrotic lesion areas that collectively stabilize atheroma. Thus, BMDM-IL-4-exo may represent a useful therapeutic approach for atherosclerosis and other inflammatory disorders by targeting NF-κB and TNF-α via microRNA cargo delivery."	0
"32917828"	"Retraction: Specific interference of urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor and matrix metalloproteinase-9 gene expression induced by double-stranded RNA results in decreased invasion, tumor growth, and angiogenesis in gliomas."	0
"32320660"	"The Asymmetric Expression of SAUR Genes Mediated by ARF7/19 Promotes the Gravitropism and Phototropism of Plant Hypocotyls.The asymmetric distribution of auxin leads to the bending growth of hypocotyls during gravitropic and phototropic responses, but the signaling events downstream of auxin remain unclear. Here, we identify many SAUR genes showing asymmetric expression in soybean hypocotyls during gravistimulation and then study their homologs in Arabidopsis. SAUR19 subfamily genes have asymmetric expression in Arabidopsis hypocotyls during gravitropic and phototropic responses, induced by the lateral redistribution of auxin. Both the mutation of SAUR19 subfamily genes and the ectopic expression of SAUR19 weaken these tropic responses, indicating the critical role of their asymmetric expression. The auxin-responsive transcription factor ARF7 may directly bind the SAUR19 promoter and activate SAUR19 expression asymmetrically in tropic responses. Taken together, our results reveal that a gravity- or light-triggered asymmetric auxin distribution induces the asymmetric expression of SAUR19 subfamily genes by ARF7 and ARF19 in the hypocotyls, which leads to bending growth during gravitropic and phototropic responses."	1
"31629659"	"KDM3A Senses Oxygen Availability to Regulate PGC-1α-Mediated Mitochondrial Biogenesis.Hypoxia, which occurs during tumor growth, triggers complex adaptive responses in which peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α) plays a critical role in mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. However, how PGC-1α is regulated in response to oxygen availability remains unclear. We demonstrated that lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) binds to PGC-1α and demethylates monomethylated lysine (K) 224 of PGC-1α under normoxic conditions. Hypoxic stimulation inhibits KDM3A, which has a high K<sub>M</sub> of oxygen for its activity, and enhances PGC-1α K224 monomethylation. This modification decreases PGC-1α's activity required for NRF1- and NRF2-dependent transcriptional regulation of TFAM, TFB1M, and TFB2M, resulting in reduced mitochondrial biogenesis. Expression of PGC-1α K224R mutant significantly increases mitochondrial biogenesis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and tumor cell apoptosis under hypoxia and inhibits brain tumor growth in mice. This study revealed that PGC-1α monomethylation, which is dependent on oxygen availability-regulated KDM3A, plays a critical role in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis."	1
"31543423"	"Transient Hysteresis in CDK4/6 Activity Underlies Passage of the Restriction Point in G1.Cells escape the need for mitogens at a restriction point several hours before entering S phase. The restriction point has been proposed to result from CDK4/6 initiating partial Rb phosphorylation to trigger a bistable switch whereby cyclin E-CDK2 and Rb mutually reinforce each other to induce Rb hyperphosphorylation. Here, using single-cell analysis, we unexpectedly found that cyclin E/A-CDK activity can only maintain Rb hyperphosphorylation starting at the onset of S phase and that CDK4/6 activity, but not cyclin E/A-CDK activity, is required to hyperphosphorylate Rb throughout G1 phase. Mitogen removal in G1 results in a gradual loss of CDK4/6 activity with a high likelihood of cells sustaining Rb hyperphosphorylation until S phase, at which point cyclin E/A-CDK activity takes over. Thus, it is short-term memory, or transient hysteresis, in CDK4/6 activity following mitogen removal that sustains Rb hyperphosphorylation, demonstrating a probabilistic rather than an irreversible molecular mechanism underlying the restriction point."	1
"30595438"	"Temperature-Responsive Competitive Inhibition of CRISPR-Cas9.CRISPR-Cas immune systems utilize RNA-guided nucleases to protect bacteria from bacteriophage infection. Bacteriophages have in turn evolved inhibitory ""anti-CRISPR"" (Acr) proteins, including six inhibitors (AcrIIA1-AcrIIA6) that can block DNA cutting and genome editing by type II-A CRISPR-Cas9 enzymes. We show here that AcrIIA2 and its more potent homolog, AcrIIA2b, prevent Cas9 binding to DNA by occluding protein residues required for DNA binding. Cryo-EM-determined structures of AcrIIA2 or AcrIIA2b bound to S. pyogenes Cas9 reveal a mode of competitive inhibition of DNA binding that is distinct from other known Acrs. Differences in the temperature dependence of Cas9 inhibition by AcrIIA2 and AcrIIA2b arise from differences in both inhibitor structure and the local inhibitor-binding environment on Cas9. These findings expand the natural toolbox for regulating CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing temporally, spatially, and conditionally."	0
"32755576"	"Stromal Cell-Contact Dependent PI3K and APRIL Induced NF-κB Signaling Prevent Mitochondrial- and ER Stress Induced Death of Memory Plasma Cells.The persistence of long-lived memory plasma cells in the bone marrow depends on survival factors available in the bone marrow, which are provided in niches organized by stromal cells. Using an ex vivo system in which we supply the known survival signals, direct cell contact to stromal cells, and the soluble cytokine a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), we have elucidated the critical signaling pathways required for the survival of long-lived plasma cells. Integrin-mediated contact of bone marrow plasma cells with stromal cells activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway, leading to critical inactivation of Forkhead-Box-Protein O1/3 (FoxO1/3) and preventing the activation of mitochondrial stress-associated effector caspases 3 and 7. Accordingly, inhibition of PI3K signaling in vivo ablates bone marrow plasma cells. APRIL signaling, by the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway, blocks activation of the endoplasmic-reticulum-stress-associated initiator caspase 12. Thus, stromal-cell-contact-induced PI3K and APRIL-induced NF-κB signaling provide the necessary and complementary signals to maintain bone marrow memory plasma cells."	1
"30846317"	"CHP1 Regulates Compartmentalized Glycerolipid Synthesis by Activating GPAT4.Cells require a constant supply of fatty acids to survive and proliferate. Fatty acids incorporate into membrane and storage glycerolipids through a series of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) enzymes, but how these enzymes are regulated is not well understood. Here, using a combination of CRISPR-based genetic screens and unbiased lipidomics, we identified calcineurin B homologous protein 1 (CHP1) as a major regulator of ER glycerolipid synthesis. Loss of CHP1 severely reduces fatty acid incorporation and storage in mammalian cells and invertebrates. Mechanistically, CHP1 binds and activates GPAT4, which catalyzes the initial rate-limiting step in glycerolipid synthesis. GPAT4 activity requires CHP1 to be N-myristoylated, forming a key molecular interface between the two proteins. Interestingly, upon CHP1 loss, the peroxisomal enzyme, GNPAT, partially compensates for the loss of ER lipid synthesis, enabling cell proliferation. Thus, our work identifies a conserved regulator of glycerolipid metabolism and reveals plasticity in lipid synthesis of proliferating cells."	1
"31968249"	"The Mitochondrial Protein MAVS Stabilizes p53 to Suppress Tumorigenesis.Recent reports have shown the critical role of the mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS) protein in virus-induced apoptosis, but the involvement of MAVS in tumorigenesis is still poorly understood. Herein, we report that MAVS is a key regulator of p53 activation and is critical for protecting against tumorigenesis. We find that MAVS promotes p53-dependent cell death in response to DNA damage. MAVS interacts with p53 and mediates p53 mitochondrial recruitment under genotoxic stress. Mechanistically, MAVS inhibits p53 ubiquitination by blocking the formation of the p53-murine double-minute 2 (MDM2) complex, leading to the stabilization of p53. Notably, compared with their wild-type littermates, MAVS knockout mice display decreased resistance to azoxymethane (AOM) or AOM/dextran sulfate sodium salt (DSS)-induced colon cancer. MAVS expression is significantly downregulated in human colon cancer tissues. These results unveil roles for MAVS in DNA damage response and tumor suppression."	1
