"pmid"	"text"	"hit"
"32348767"	"Mechanism of Virus Attenuation by Codon Pair Deoptimization.Codon pair deoptimization is an efficient virus attenuation strategy, but the mechanism that leads to attenuation is unknown. The strategy involves synthetic recoding of viral genomes that alters the positions of synonymous codons, thereby increasing the number of suboptimal codon pairs and CpG dinucleotides in recoded genomes. Here we identify the molecular mechanism of codon pair deoptimization-based attenuation by studying recoded influenza A viruses. We show that suboptimal codon pairs cause attenuation, whereas the increase of CpG dinucleotides has no effect. Furthermore, we show that suboptimal codon pairs reduce both mRNA stability and translation efficiency of codon pair-deoptimized genes. Consequently, reduced protein production directly causes virus attenuation. Our study provides evidence that suboptimal codon pairs are major determinants of mRNA stability. Additionally, it demonstrates that codon pair bias can be used to increase mRNA stability and protein production of synthetic genes in many areas of biotechnology."	0
"32424042"	"Lipopolysaccharide O-antigens-bacterial glycans made to measure.Lipopolysaccharides are critical components of bacterial outer membranes. The more conserved lipid A part of the lipopolysaccharide molecule is a major element in the permeability barrier imposed by the outer membrane and offers a pathogen-associated molecular pattern recognized by innate immune systems. In contrast, the long-chain O-antigen polysaccharide (O-PS) shows remarkable structural diversity and fulfills a range of functions, depending on bacterial lifestyles. O-PS production is vital for the success of clinically important Gram-negative pathogens. The biological properties and functions of O-PSs are mostly independent of specific structures, but the size distribution of O-PS chains is particularly important in many contexts. Despite the vast O-PS chemical diversity, most are produced in bacterial cells by two assembly strategies, and the different mechanisms employed in these pathways to regulate chain-length distribution are emerging. Here, we review our current understanding of the mechanisms involved in regulating O-PS chain-length distribution and discuss their impact on microbial cell biology."	0
"32647007"	"Cathepsin A contributes to left ventricular remodeling by degrading extracellular superoxide dismutase in mice.In the heart, the serine carboxypeptidase cathepsin A (CatA) is distributed between lysosomes and the extracellular matrix (ECM). CatA-mediated degradation of extracellular peptides may contribute to ECM remodeling and left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. Here, we aimed to evaluate the effects of CatA overexpression on LV remodeling. A proteomic analysis of the secretome of adult mouse cardiac fibroblasts upon digestion by CatA identified the extracellular antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase (EC-SOD) as a novel substrate of CatA, which decreased EC-SOD abundance 5-fold. <i>In vitro</i>, both cardiomyocytes and cardiac fibroblasts expressed and secreted CatA protein, and only cardiac fibroblasts expressed and secreted EC-SOD protein. Cardiomyocyte-specific CatA overexpression and increased CatA activity in the LV of transgenic mice (CatA-TG) reduced EC-SOD protein levels by 43%. Loss of EC-SOD-mediated antioxidative activity resulted in significant accumulation of superoxide radicals (WT, 4.54 μmol/mg tissue/min; CatA-TG, 8.62 μmol/mg tissue/min), increased inflammation, myocyte hypertrophy (WT, 19.8 μm; CatA-TG, 21.9 μm), cellular apoptosis, and elevated mRNA expression of hypertrophy-related and profibrotic marker genes, without affecting intracellular detoxifying proteins. In CatA-TG mice, LV interstitial fibrosis formation was enhanced by 19%, and the type I/type III collagen ratio was shifted toward higher abundance of collagen I fibers. Cardiac remodeling in CatA-TG was accompanied by an increased LV weight/body weight ratio and LV end diastolic volume (WT, 50.8 μl; CatA-TG, 61.9 μl). In conclusion, CatA-mediated EC-SOD reduction in the heart contributes to increased oxidative stress, myocyte hypertrophy, ECM remodeling, and inflammation, implicating CatA as a potential therapeutic target to prevent ventricular remodeling."	0
"31836388"	"Paradoxical Role for Wild-Type p53 in Driving Therapy Resistance in Melanoma.Metastatic melanoma is an aggressive disease, despite recent improvements in therapy. Eradicating all melanoma cells even in drug-sensitive tumors is unsuccessful in patients because a subset of cells can transition to a slow-cycling state, rendering them resistant to most targeted therapy. It is still unclear what pathways define these subpopulations and promote this resistant phenotype. In the current study, we show that Wnt5A, a non-canonical Wnt ligand that drives a metastatic, therapy-resistant phenotype, stabilizes the half-life of p53 and uses p53 to initiate a slow-cycling state following stress (DNA damage, targeted therapy, and aging). Inhibiting p53 blocks the slow-cycling phenotype and sensitizes melanoma cells to BRAF/MEK inhibition. In vivo, this can be accomplished with a single dose of p53 inhibitor at the commencement of BRAF/MEK inhibitor therapy. These data suggest that taking the paradoxical approach of inhibiting rather than activating wild-type p53 may sensitize previously resistant metastatic melanoma cells to therapy."	0
"31704183"	"Tunability of DNA Polymerase Stability during Eukaryotic DNA Replication.Structural and biochemical studies have revealed the basic principles of how the replisome duplicates genomic DNA, but little is known about its dynamics during DNA replication. We reconstitute the 34 proteins needed to form the S. cerevisiae replisome and show how changing local concentrations of the key DNA polymerases tunes the ability of the complex to efficiently recycle these proteins or to dynamically exchange them. Particularly, we demonstrate redundancy of the Pol α-primase DNA polymerase activity in replication and show that Pol α-primase and the lagging-strand Pol δ can be re-used within the replisome to support the synthesis of large numbers of Okazaki fragments. This unexpected malleability of the replisome might allow it to deal with barriers and resource challenges during replication of large genomes."	0
"32541877"	"The protein kinase Akt acts as a coat adaptor in endocytic recycling.Coat proteins have a central role in vesicular transport by binding to cargoes for their sorting into intracellular pathways. Cargo recognition is mediated by components of the coat complex known as adaptor proteins<sup>1-3</sup>. We previously showed that Arf-GAP with coil-coil, ANK repeat and PH domain-containing protein 1 (ACAP1) functions as an adaptor for a clathrin coat complex that has a function in endocytic recycling<sup>4-6</sup>. Here, we show that the protein kinase Akt acts as a co-adaptor in this complex, and is needed in conjunction with ACAP1 to bind to cargo proteins to promote their recycling. In addition to advancing the understanding of endocytic recycling, we uncover a fundamentally different function in which a kinase acts, as Akt in this case is an effector rather than a regulator in a cellular event."	1
"32814040"	"Targeted Neurostimulation in Mouse Brains with Non-invasive Ultrasound.Recently developed brain stimulation techniques have significantly advanced our ability to manipulate the brain's function. However, stimulating specific neurons in a desired region without significant surgical invasion remains a challenge. Here, we demonstrate a neuron-specific and region-targeted neural excitation strategy using non-invasive ultrasound through activation of heterologously expressed mechanosensitive ion channels (MscL-G22S). Low-intensity ultrasound is significantly better at inducing Ca<sup>2+</sup> influx and neuron activation in vitro and at evoking electromyogram (EMG) responses in vivo in targeted cells expressing MscL-G22S. Neurons in the cerebral cortex or dorsomedial striatum of mice are made to express MscL-G22S and stimulated ultrasonically. We find significant upregulation of c-Fos in neuron nuclei only in the regions expressing MscL-G22S compared with the non-MscL controls, as well as in various other regions in the same brain. Thus, we detail an effective approach for activating specific regions and cell types in intact mouse brains by sensitizing them to ultrasound using a mechanosensitive ion channel."	0
"31585692"	"A Consensus Binding Motif for the PP4 Protein Phosphatase.Dynamic protein phosphorylation constitutes a fundamental regulatory mechanism in all organisms. Phosphoprotein phosphatase 4 (PP4) is a conserved and essential nuclear serine and threonine phosphatase. Despite the importance of PP4, general principles of substrate selection are unknown, hampering the study of signal regulation by this phosphatase. Here, we identify and thoroughly characterize a general PP4 consensus-binding motif, the FxxP motif. X-ray crystallography studies reveal that FxxP motifs bind to a conserved pocket in the PP4 regulatory subunit PPP4R3. Systems-wide in silico searches integrated with proteomic analysis of PP4 interacting proteins allow us to identify numerous FxxP motifs in proteins controlling a range of fundamental cellular processes. We identify an FxxP motif in the cohesin release factor WAPL and show that this regulates WAPL phosphorylation status and is required for efficient cohesin release. Collectively our work uncovers basic principles of PP4 specificity with broad implications for understanding phosphorylation-mediated signaling in cells."	0
"31585693"	"A Diversity of Selective Autophagy Receptors Determines the Specificity of the Autophagy Pathway.The clearance of surplus, broken, or dangerous components is key for maintaining cellular homeostasis. The failure to remove protein aggregates, damaged organelles, or intracellular pathogens leads to diseases, including neurodegeneration, cancer, and infectious diseases. Autophagy is the evolutionarily conserved pathway that sequesters cytoplasmic components in specialized vesicles, autophagosomes, which transport the cargo to the degradative compartments (vacuoles or lysosomes). Research during the past few decades has elucidated how autophagosomes engulf their substrates selectively. This type of autophagy involves a growing number of selective autophagy receptors (SARs) (e.g., Atg19 in yeasts, p62/SQSTM1 in mammals), which bind to the cargo and simultaneously engage components of the core autophagic machinery via direct interaction with the ubiquitin-like proteins (UBLs) of the Atg8/LC3/GABARAP family and adaptors, Atg11 (in yeasts) or FIP200 (in mammals). In this Review, we critically discuss the biology of the SARs with special emphasis on their interactions with UBLs."	0
"31968258"	"Ex Vivo Expanded 3D Human Kidney Spheres Engraft Long Term and Repair Chronic Renal Injury in Mice.End-stage renal disease is a worldwide epidemic requiring renal replacement therapy. Harvesting tissue from failing kidneys and autotransplantation of tissue progenitors could theoretically delay the need for dialysis. Here we use healthy and end-stage human adult kidneys to robustly expand proliferative kidney epithelial cells and establish 3D kidney epithelial cultures termed ""nephrospheres."" Formation of nephrospheres reestablishes renal identity and function in primary cultures. Transplantation into NOD/SCID mice shows that nephrospheres restore self-organogenetic properties lost in monolayer cultures, allowing long-term engraftment as tubular structures, potentially adding nephron segments and demonstrating self-organization as critical to survival. Furthermore, long-term tubular engraftment of nephrospheres is functionally beneficial in murine models of chronic kidney disease. Remarkably, nephrospheres inhibit pro-fibrotic collagen production in cultured fibroblasts via paracrine modulation, while transplanted nephrospheres induce transcriptional signatures of proliferation and release from quiescence, suggesting re-activation of endogenous repair. These data support the use of human nephrospheres for renal cell therapy."	0
"32277910"	"Division of Labor between PCNA Loaders in DNA Replication and Sister Chromatid Cohesion Establishment.Concomitant with DNA replication, the chromosomal cohesin complex establishes cohesion between newly replicated sister chromatids. Several replication-fork-associated ""cohesion establishment factors,"" including the multifunctional Ctf18-RFC complex, aid this process in as yet unknown ways. Here, we show that Ctf18-RFC's role in sister chromatid cohesion correlates with PCNA loading but is separable from its role in the replication checkpoint. Ctf18-RFC loads PCNA with a slight preference for the leading strand, which is dispensable for DNA replication. Conversely, the canonical Rfc1-RFC complex preferentially loads PCNA onto the lagging strand, which is crucial for DNA replication but dispensable for sister chromatid cohesion. The downstream effector of Ctf18-RFC is cohesin acetylation, which we place toward a late step during replication maturation. Our results suggest that Ctf18-RFC enriches and balances PCNA levels at the replication fork, beyond the needs of DNA replication, to promote establishment of sister chromatid cohesion and possibly other post-replicative processes."	0
"32101739"	"Redefining Single-Trial Memories in the Honeybee.Research on honeybee memory has led to a widely accepted model in which a single pairing of an odor stimulus with sucrose induces memories that are independent of protein synthesis but is unable to form protein-synthesis-dependent long-term memory (LTM). The latter is said to arise only after three or more pairings of odor and sucrose. Here, we show that this model underestimates the capacity of the bee brain to form LTMs after a unique appetitive experience. Using state-of-the art conditioning setups and individual-based analyses of conditioned responses, we found that protein-synthesis-dependent memories are formed already 4 h after the single conditioning trial and persist even 3 days later. These memories (4 h, 24 h, and 72 h) exhibit different dependencies on transcription and translation processes. Our results thus modify the traditional view of one-trial memories in an insect with a model status for memory research."	0
"32416068"	"A High-Throughput Screen for Transcription Activation Domains Reveals Their Sequence Features and Permits Prediction by Deep Learning.Acidic transcription activation domains (ADs) are encoded by a wide range of seemingly unrelated amino acid sequences, making it difficult to recognize features that promote their dynamic behavior, ""fuzzy"" interactions, and target specificity. We screened a large set of random 30-mer peptides for AD function in yeast and trained a deep neural network (ADpred) on the AD-positive and -negative sequences. ADpred identifies known acidic ADs within transcription factors and accurately predicts the consequences of mutations. Our work reveals that strong acidic ADs contain multiple clusters of hydrophobic residues near acidic side chains, explaining why ADs often have a biased amino acid composition. ADs likely use a binding mechanism similar to avidity where a minimum number of weak dynamic interactions are required between activator and target to generate biologically relevant affinity and in vivo function. This mechanism explains the basis for fuzzy binding observed between acidic ADs and targets."	0
"31733992"	"An mTORC1-to-CDK1 Switch Maintains Autophagy Suppression during Mitosis.Since nuclear envelope breakdown occurs during mitosis in metazoan cells, it has been proposed that macroautophagy must be inhibited to maintain genome integrity. However, repression of macroautophagy during mitosis remains controversial and mechanistic detail limited to the suggestion that CDK1 phosphorylates VPS34. Here, we show that initiation of macroautophagy, measured by the translocation of the ULK complex to autophagic puncta, is repressed during mitosis, even when mTORC1 is inhibited. Indeed, mTORC1 is inactive during mitosis, reflecting its failure to localize to lysosomes due to CDK1-dependent RAPTOR phosphorylation. While mTORC1 normally represses autophagy via phosphorylation of ULK1, ATG13, ATG14, and TFEB, we show that the mitotic phosphorylation of these autophagy regulators, including at known repressive sites, is dependent on CDK1 but independent of mTOR. Thus, CDK1 substitutes for inhibited mTORC1 as the master regulator of macroautophagy during mitosis, uncoupling autophagy regulation from nutrient status to ensure repression of macroautophagy during mitosis."	1
"32075731"	"Small Molecule Inhibition of GSK-3 Specifically Inhibits the Transcription of Inhibitory Co-receptor LAG-3 for Enhanced Anti-tumor Immunity.Immune checkpoint blockade using antibodies against negative co-receptors such as cytolytic T cell antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) has seen much success treating cancer. However, most patients are still not cured, underscoring the need for improved treatments and the possible development of small molecule inhibitors (SMIs) for improved immunotherapy. We previously showed that glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3α/β is a central regulator of PD-1 expression, where GSK-3 inhibition down-regulates PD-1 and enhances CD8<sup>+</sup> cytolytic T cell (CTL) function, reducing viral infections and tumor growth. Here, we demonstrate that GSK-3 also negatively regulates Lymphocyte Activation Gene-3 (LAG-3) expression on CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells. GSK-3 SMIs are more effective than LAG-3 blockade alone in suppressing B16 melanoma growth, while their combination resulted in enhanced tumor clearance. This was linked to increased expression of the transcription factor, Tbet, which bound the LAG-3 promoter, inhibiting its transcription, and to increased granzyme B and interferon-γ1 expression. Overall, we describe a small molecule approach to inhibit LAG-3, resulting in enhanced anti-tumor immunity."	1
"32579939"	"A Family of T6SS Antibacterial Effectors Related to l,d-Transpeptidases Targets the Peptidoglycan.Type VI secretion systems (T6SSs) are nanomachines used by bacteria to inject toxic effectors into competitors. The identity and mechanism of many effectors remain unknown. We characterized a Salmonella T6SS antibacterial effector called Tlde1 that is toxic in target-cell periplasm and is neutralized by its cognate immunity protein (Tldi1). Microscopy analysis reveals that cells expressing Tlde1 stop dividing and lose cell envelope integrity. Bioinformatic analysis uncovers similarities between Tlde1 and the catalytic domain of l,d-transpeptidases. Point mutations on conserved catalytic residues abrogate toxicity. Biochemical assays reveal that Tlde1 displays both l,d-carboxypeptidase activity by cleaving peptidoglycan tetrapeptides between meso-diaminopimelic acid<sup>3</sup> and d-alanine<sup>4</sup> and l,d-transpeptidase exchange activity by replacing d-alanine<sup>4</sup> by a non-canonical d-amino acid. Phylogenetic analysis shows that Tlde1 homologs constitute a family of T6SS-associated effectors broadly distributed among Proteobacteria. This work expands our current knowledge about bacterial effectors used in interbacterial competition and reveals a different mechanism of bacterial antagonism."	0
"30598363"	"RIPK1 and Caspase-8 Ensure Chromosome Stability Independently of Their Role in Cell Death and Inflammation.Receptor-interacting protein kinase (RIPK) 1 functions as a key mediator of tissue homeostasis via formation of Caspase-8 activating ripoptosome complexes, positively and negatively regulating apoptosis, necroptosis, and inflammation. Here, we report an unanticipated cell-death- and inflammation-independent function of RIPK1 and Caspase-8, promoting faithful chromosome alignment in mitosis and thereby ensuring genome stability. We find that ripoptosome complexes progressively form as cells enter mitosis, peaking at metaphase and disassembling as cells exit mitosis. Genetic deletion and mitosis-specific inhibition of Ripk1 or Caspase-8 results in chromosome alignment defects independently of MLKL. We found that Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) is recruited into mitotic ripoptosomes, where PLK1's activity is controlled via RIPK1-dependent recruitment and Caspase-8-mediated cleavage. A fine balance of ripoptosome assembly is required as deregulated ripoptosome activity modulates PLK1-dependent phosphorylation of downstream effectors, such as BUBR1. Our data suggest that ripoptosome-mediated regulation of PLK1 contributes to faithful chromosome segregation during mitosis."	1
"32698010"	"mTORC1 Signaling Controls TLR2-Mediated T-Cell Activation by Inducing TIRAP Expression.Effector, but not naïve, T cells are activated by toll-like receptor-2 (TLR2) stimulation, leading to cytokine production and proliferation. We found that the differential response is attributable to the lack of expression of the adaptor protein TIRAP in naive T cells. TIRAP expression is induced upon T-cell receptor (TCR) stimulation and sustained by strong interleukin-2 (IL-2) signals. Expression of TIRAP requires TCR- and IL-2-induced mTORC1 activation. TLR2 stimulation induced the activation of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and ERK, leading to much higher production of interferon-γ (IFN-γ) by T helper 1 (Th1) cells cultured in a high concentration of IL-2 than by those cultured in a low concentration of IL-2. In contrast, TLR2 stimulation induces mTORC1 activation through TIRAP, which is essential for TLR2-mediated IFN-γ production. These data demonstrate that the mTORC1 signal confers the response to TLR2 signaling by inducing TIRAP expression and that the TIRAP-mTORC1 axis is critical for TLR2-mediated IFN-γ production by effector T cells."	1
"32647006"	"A kinase cascade on the yeast lysosomal vacuole regulates its membrane dynamics: conserved kinase Env7 is phosphorylated by casein kinase Yck3.Membrane fusion/fission is a highly dynamic and conserved process that responds to intra- and extracellular signals. Whereas the molecular machineries involved in membrane fusion/fission have been dissected, regulation of membrane dynamics remains poorly understood. The lysosomal vacuole of budding yeast (<i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i>) has served as a seminal model in studies of membrane dynamics. We have previously established that yeast <i>ENV7</i> encodes an ortholog of STK16-related kinases that localizes to the vacuolar membrane and downregulates vacuolar membrane fusion. Additionally, we have previously reported that Env7 phosphorylation <i>in vivo</i> depends on <i>YCK3</i>, a gene that encodes a vacuolar membrane casein kinase I (CKI) homolog that nonredundantly functions in fusion regulation. Here, we report that Env7 physically interacts with and is directly phosphorylated by Yck3. We also establish that Env7 vacuole fusion/fission regulation and vacuolar localization are mediated through its Yck3-dependent phosphorylation. Through extensive site-directed mutagenesis, we map phosphorylation to the Env7 C terminus and confirm that Ser-331 is a primary and preferred phosphorylation site. Phospho-deficient Env7 mutants were defective in negative regulation of membrane fusion, increasing the number of prominent vacuoles, whereas a phosphomimetic substitution at Ser-331 increased the number of fragmented vacuoles. Bioinformatics approaches confirmed that Env7 Ser-331 is within a motif that is highly conserved in STK16-related kinases and that it also anchors an SXXS CKI phosphorylation motif (<sub>328</sub>SRFS<sub>331</sub>). This study represents the first report on the regulatory mechanism of an STK16-related kinase. It also points to regulation of vacuolar membrane dynamics via a novel Yck3-Env7 kinase cascade."	1
"32433974"	"Interplay between Liver X Receptor and Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1α Potentiates Interleukin-1β Production in Human Macrophages.Low-grade inflammation is constitutive of atherosclerosis, and anti-inflammatory therapy inhibiting interleukin-1β (IL-1β) reduces the rate of cardiovascular events. While cholesterol accumulation in atheroma plaque and macrophages is a major driver of the inflammatory process, the role of the LXR cholesterol sensors remains to be clarified. Murine and human macrophages were treated with LXR agonists for 48 h before Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation. Unexpectedly, we observe that, among other cytokines, LXR agonists selectively increase IL1B mRNA levels independently of TLR activation. This effect, restricted to human macrophages, is mediated by activation of HIF-1α through LXR. Accordingly, LXR agonists also potentiate other HIF-1α-dependent pathways, such as glycolysis. Treatment of human macrophages with carotid plaque homogenates also leads to induction of IL1B in an LXR-dependent manner. Thus, our work discloses a mechanism by which cholesterol and oxysterols trigger inflammation in atherosclerosis. This suggests perspectives to target IL-1β production in atherosclerotic patients."	1
"32402252"	"KAP1 Is a Chromatin Reader that Couples Steps of RNA Polymerase II Transcription to Sustain Oncogenic Programs.Precise control of the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) cycle, including pausing and pause release, maintains transcriptional homeostasis and organismal functions. Despite previous work to understand individual transcription steps, we reveal a mechanism that integrates RNA Pol II cycle transitions. Surprisingly, KAP1/TRIM28 uses a previously uncharacterized chromatin reader cassette to bind hypo-acetylated histone 4 tails at promoters, guaranteeing continuous progression of RNA Pol II entry to and exit from the pause state. Upon chromatin docking, KAP1 first associates with RNA Pol II and then recruits a pathway-specific transcription factor (SMAD2) in response to cognate ligands, enabling gene-selective CDK9-dependent pause release. This coupling mechanism is exploited by tumor cells to aberrantly sustain transcriptional programs commonly dysregulated in cancer patients. The discovery of a factor integrating transcription steps expands the functional repertoire by which chromatin readers operate and provides mechanistic understanding of transcription regulation, offering alternative therapeutic opportunities to target transcriptional dysregulation."	1
"32763910"	"miR760 regulates ATXN1 levels via interaction with its 5' untranslated region.Identifying modifiers of dosage-sensitive genes involved in neurodegenerative disorders is imperative to discover novel genetic risk factors and potential therapeutic entry points. In this study, we focus on Ataxin-1 (<i>ATXN1</i>), a dosage-sensitive gene involved in the neurodegenerative disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). While the precise maintenance of ATXN1 levels is essential to prevent disease, the mechanisms that regulate <i>ATXN1</i> expression remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that <i>ATXN1</i>'s unusually long 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) negatively regulates its expression via posttranscriptional mechanisms. Based on recent reports that microRNAs (miRNAs) can interact with both 3' and 5' UTRs to regulate their target genes, we identify miR760 as a negative regulator that binds to a conserved site in <i>ATXN1</i>'s 5' UTR to induce RNA degradation and translational inhibition. We found that delivery of Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-expressing miR760 in the cerebellum reduces ATXN1 levels in vivo and mitigates motor coordination deficits in a mouse model of SCA1. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of ATXN1 levels, present additional evidence for miRNA-mediated gene regulation via 5' UTR binding, and raise the possibility that noncoding mutations in the <i>ATXN1</i> locus may act as risk factors for yet to be discovered progressive ataxias."	1
"32645369"	"RNF126-Mediated Reubiquitination Is Required for Proteasomal Degradation of p97-Extracted Membrane Proteins.Valosin-containing protein (VCP)/p97 is an AAA-ATPase that extracts polyubiquitinated substrates from multimeric macromolecular complexes and biological membranes for proteasomal degradation. During p97-mediated extraction, the substrate is largely deubiquitinated as it is threaded through the p97 central pore. How p97-extracted substrates are targeted to the proteasome with few or no ubiquitins is unknown. Here, we report that p97-extracted membrane proteins undergo a second round of ubiquitination catalyzed by the cytosolic ubiquitin ligase RNF126. RNF126 interacts with transmembrane-domain-specific chaperone BAG6, which captures p97-liberated substrates. RNF126 depletion in cells diminishes the ubiquitination of extracted membrane proteins, slows down their turnover, and dramatically stabilizes otherwise transient intermediates in the cytosol. We reconstitute the reubiquitination of a p97-extracted, misfolded multispanning membrane protein with purified factors. Our results demonstrate that p97-extracted substrates need to rapidly engage ubiquitin ligase-chaperone pairs that rebuild the ubiquitin signal for proteasome targeting to prevent harmful accumulation of unfolded intermediates."	1
"32187559"	"Identification of ALPPL2 as a Naive Pluripotent State-Specific Surface Protein Essential for Human Naive Pluripotency Regulation.Human naive pluripotent stem cells established from the epiblasts of preimplantation blastocysts provide a useful model for mechanistic studies of pluripotency regulation and lineage differentiation. Important advances have been made to optimize culture conditions and define molecular criteria for naive pluripotency. However, the identity of naive-specific surface markers and the underlying molecular mechanism of naive pluripotency regulation remain poorly understood. Here, we identify alkaline phosphatase placental-like 2 (ALPPL2) as a prominent naive-specific surface marker by systematic proteomic and transcriptomic analyses. Furthermore, we demonstrate that ALPPL2 is essential for both the establishment and maintenance of naive pluripotency. Moreover, we show that ALPPL2 can interact with the RNA-binding protein IGF2BP1 to stabilize the mRNA levels of the naive pluripotency transcription factors TFCP2L1 and STAT3 to regulate naive pluripotency. Overall, our study identifies a functional surface marker for human naive pluripotency, providing a powerful tool for human-naive-pluripotency-related mechanistic studies."	1
"31542297"	"Glutarylation of Histone H4 Lysine 91 Regulates Chromatin Dynamics.Histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) regulate chromatin structure and dynamics during various DNA-associated processes. Here, we report that lysine glutarylation (Kglu) occurs at 27 lysine residues on human core histones. Using semi-synthetic glutarylated histones, we show that an evolutionarily conserved Kglu at histone H4K91 destabilizes nucleosome in vitro. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the replacement of H4K91 by glutamate that mimics Kglu influences chromatin structure and thereby results in a global upregulation of transcription and defects in cell-cycle progression, DNA damage repair, and telomere silencing. In mammalian cells, H4K91glu is mainly enriched at promoter regions of highly expressed genes. A downregulation of H4K91glu is tightly associated with chromatin condensation during mitosis and in response to DNA damage. The cellular dynamics of H4K91glu is controlled by Sirt7 as a deglutarylase and KAT2A as a glutaryltransferase. This study designates a new histone mark (Kglu) as a new regulatory mechanism for chromatin dynamics."	1
"32620552"	"Phosphorylation on Ser-359 of the α2 subunit in GABA type A receptors down-regulates their density at inhibitory synapses.GABA type A receptors (GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs) mediate fast synaptic inhibition and are trafficked to functionally diverse synapses. However, the precise molecular mechanisms that regulate the synaptic targeting of these receptors are unclear. Whereas it has been previously shown that phosphorylation events in α4, β, and γ subunits of GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs govern their function and trafficking, phosphorylation of other subunits has not yet been demonstrated. Here, we show that the α2 subunit of GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs is phosphorylated at Ser-359 and enables dynamic regulation of GABA<sub>A</sub>R binding to the scaffolding proteins gephyrin and collybistin. We initially identified Ser-359 phosphorylation by MS analysis, and additional experiments revealed that it is regulated by the activities of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and the protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) and/or PP2A. GST-based pulldowns and coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate preferential binding of both gephyrin and collybistin to WT and an S359A phosphonull variant, but not to an S359D phosphomimetic variant. Furthermore, the decreased capacity of the α2 S359D variant to bind collybistin and gephyrin decreased the density of synaptic α2-containing GABA<sub>A</sub>R clusters and caused an absence of α2 enrichment in the axon initial segment. These results suggest that PKA-mediated phosphorylation and PP1/PP2A-dependent dephosphorylation of the α2 subunit play a role in the dynamic regulation of GABA<sub>A</sub>R accumulation at inhibitory synapses, thereby regulating the strength of synaptic inhibition. The MS data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange, with the data set identifier PXD019597."	1
"32553164"	"Patient-Derived Ovarian Cancer Organoids Mimic Clinical Response and Exhibit Heterogeneous Inter- and Intrapatient Drug Responses.There remains an unmet need for preclinical models to enable personalized therapy for ovarian cancer (OC) patients. Here we evaluate the capacity of patient-derived organoids (PDOs) to predict clinical drug response and functional consequences of tumor heterogeneity. We included 36 whole-genome-characterized PDOs from 23 OC patients with known clinical histories. OC PDOs maintain the genomic features of the original tumor lesion and recapitulate patient response to neoadjuvant carboplatin/paclitaxel combination treatment. PDOs display inter- and intrapatient drug response heterogeneity to chemotherapy and targeted drugs, which can be partially explained by genetic aberrations. PDO drug screening identifies high responsiveness to at least one drug for 88% of patients. PDOs are valuable preclinical models that can provide insights into drug response for individual patients with OC, complementary to genetic testing. Generating PDOs of multiple tumor locations can improve clinical decision making and increase our knowledge of genetic and drug response heterogeneity."	0
"32719551"	"Biophysical properties of AKAP95 protein condensates regulate splicing and tumorigenesis.It remains unknown if biophysical or material properties of biomolecular condensates regulate cancer. Here we show that AKAP95, a nuclear protein that regulates transcription and RNA splicing, plays an important role in tumorigenesis by supporting cancer cell growth and suppressing oncogene-induced senescence. AKAP95 forms phase-separated and liquid-like condensates in vitro and in nucleus. Mutations of key residues to different amino acids perturb AKAP95 condensation in opposite directions. Importantly, the activity of AKAP95 in splice regulation is abolished by disruption of condensation, significantly impaired by hardening of condensates, and regained by substituting its condensation-mediating region with other condensation-mediating regions from irrelevant proteins. Moreover, the abilities of AKAP95 in regulating gene expression and supporting tumorigenesis require AKAP95 to form condensates with proper liquidity and dynamicity. These results link phase separation to tumorigenesis and uncover an important role of appropriate biophysical properties of protein condensates in gene regulation and cancer."	0
"32636303"	"Interleukin-6-mediated epigenetic control of the VEGFR2 gene induces disorganized angiogenesis in human breast tumors.Disorganized vessels in the tumor vasculature lead to impaired perfusion, resulting in reduced accessibility to immune cells and chemotherapeutic drugs. In the breast tumor-stroma interplay, paracrine factors such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) often facilitate disordered angiogenesis. We show here that epigenetic mechanisms regulate the crosstalk between IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) signaling pathways in myoepithelial (CD10<sup>+</sup>) and endothelial (CD31<sup>+</sup>, CD105<sup>+</sup>, CD146<sup>+</sup>, and CD133<sup>-</sup>) cells isolated from malignant and nonmalignant tissues of clinically characterized human breast tumors. Tumor endothelial (Endo-T) cells in 3D cultures exhibited higher VEGFR2 expression levels, accelerated migration, invasion, and disorganized sprout formation in response to elevated IL-6 levels secreted by tumor myoepithelial (Epi-T) cells. Constitutively, compared with normal endothelial (Endo-N) cells, Endo-T cells differentially expressed DNA methyltransferase isoforms and had increased levels of IL-6 signaling intermediates such as IL-6R and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Upon IL-6 treatment, Endo-N and Endo-T cells displayed altered expression of the DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) isoform. Mechanistic studies revealed that IL-6 induced proteasomal degradation of DNMT1, but not of DNMT3A and DNMT3B and subsequently led to promoter hypomethylation and expression/activation of <i>VEGFR2.</i> IL-6-induced VEGFR2 up-regulation was inhibited by overexpression of DNMT1. Transfection of a dominant-negative STAT3 mutant, but not of STAT1, abrogated VEGFR2 expression. Our results indicate that in the breast tumor microenvironment, IL-6 secreted from myoepithelial cells influences DNMT1 stability, induces the expression of VEGFR2 in endothelial cells via a promoter methylation-dependent mechanism, and leads to disordered angiogenesis."	1
"32268090"	"TBK1 and IKKε Act Redundantly to Mediate STING-Induced NF-κB Responses in Myeloid Cells.Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) is a critical component of host innate immune defense but can contribute to chronic autoimmune or autoinflammatory disease. Once activated, the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-adenosine monophosphate (AMP) (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS)-STING pathway induces both type I interferon (IFN) expression and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-mediated cytokine production. Currently, these two signaling arms are thought to be mediated by a single upstream kinase, TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). Here, using genetic and pharmacological approaches, we show that TBK1 alone is dispensable for STING-induced NF-κB responses in human and mouse immune cells, as well as in vivo. We further demonstrate that TBK1 acts redundantly with IκB kinase ε (IKKε) to drive NF-κB upon STING activation. Interestingly, we show that activation of IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) is highly dependent on TBK1 kinase activity, whereas NF-κB is significantly less sensitive to TBK1/IKKε kinase inhibition. Our work redefines signaling events downstream of cGAS-STING. Our findings further suggest that cGAS-STING will need to be targeted directly to effectively ameliorate the inflammation underpinning disorders associated with STING hyperactivity."	1
"32375042"	"The Parkinson's Disease Protein LRRK2 Interacts with the GARP Complex to Promote Retrograde Transport to the trans-Golgi Network.Mutations in Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) cause Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the precise function of LRRK2 remains unclear. We report an interaction between LRRK2 and VPS52, a subunit of the Golgi-associated retrograde protein (GARP) complex that identifies a function of LRRK2 in regulating membrane fusion at the trans-Golgi network (TGN). At the TGN, LRRK2 further interacts with the Golgi SNAREs VAMP4 and Syntaxin-6 and acts as a scaffolding platform that stabilizes the GARP-SNAREs complex formation. Therefore, LRRK2 influences both retrograde and post-Golgi trafficking pathways in a manner dependent on its GTP binding and kinase activity. This action is exaggerated by mutations associated with Parkinson's disease and can be blocked by kinase inhibitors. Disruption of GARP sensitizes dopamine neurons to mutant LRRK2 toxicity in C. elegans, showing that these pathways are interlinked in vivo and suggesting a link in PD."	1
"32675284"	"Caspr2 interacts with type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the developing cerebellum and regulates Purkinje cell morphology.Contactin-associated protein-like 2 (Caspr2) is a neurexin-like protein that has been associated with numerous neurological conditions. However, the specific functional roles that Caspr2 plays in the central nervous system and their underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we report on a functional role for Caspr2 in the developing cerebellum. Using a combination of confocal microscopy, biochemical analyses, and behavioral testing, we show that loss of Caspr2 in the <i>Cntnap2</i><sup>-/-</sup> knockout mouse results in impaired Purkinje cell dendritic development, altered intracellular signaling, and motor coordination deficits. We also find that Caspr2 is highly enriched at synaptic specializations in the cerebellum. Using a proteomics approach, we identify type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP<sub>3</sub>R1) as a specific synaptic interaction partner of the Caspr2 extracellular domain in the molecular layer of the developing cerebellum. The interaction of the Caspr2 extracellular domain with IP<sub>3</sub>R1 inhibits IP<sub>3</sub>R1-mediated changes in cellular morphology. Together, our work defines a mechanism by which Caspr2 controls the development and function of the cerebellum and advances our understanding of how Caspr2 dysfunction might lead to specific brain disorders."	1
"32679077"	"Acetylation-Dependent Deubiquitinase OTUD3 Controls MAVS Activation in Innate Antiviral Immunity.Accurate regulation of innate immunity is necessary for the host to efficiently respond to invading pathogens and avoid excessive harmful immune pathology. Here we identified OTUD3 as an acetylation-dependent deubiquitinase that restricts innate antiviral immune signaling. OTUD3 deficiency in mice results in enhanced innate immunity, a diminished viral load, and morbidity. OTUD3 directly hydrolyzes lysine 63 (Lys63)-linked polyubiquitination of MAVS and thus shuts off innate antiviral immune response. Notably, the catalytic activity of OTUD3 relies on acetylation of its Lys129 residue. In response to virus infection, the acetylated Lys129 is removed by SIRT1, which promptly inactivates OTUD3 and thus allows timely induction of innate antiviral immunity. Importantly, acetyl-OTUD3 levels are inversely correlated with IFN-β expression in influenza patients. These findings establish OTUD3 as a repressor of MAVS and uncover a previously unknown regulatory mechanism by which the catalytic activity of OTUD3 is tightly controlled to ensure timely activation of antiviral defense."	1
"32846130"	"BIRC2 Expression Impairs Anti-Cancer Immunity and Immunotherapy Efficacy.Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has led to therapeutic responses in some cancer patients for whom no effective treatment previously existed. ICB acts on T lymphocytes and other immune cells that are inactivated due to checkpoint signals that inhibit their infiltration and function within tumors. But for more than 80% of patients, immunotherapy has not been effective. Here, we demonstrate a cancer-cell-intrinsic mechanism of immune evasion and resistance to ICB mediated by baculoviral IAP repeat-containing 2 (BIRC2). Knockdown of BIRC2 expression in mouse melanoma or breast cancer cells increases expression of the chemokine CXCL9 and impairs tumor growth by increasing the number of intratumoral activated CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells. Administration of anti-CXCL9 neutralizing antibody inhibits the recruitment of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells to BIRC2-deficient tumors. Most importantly, BIRC2 deficiency dramatically increases the sensitivity of mouse melanoma and breast tumors to anti-CTLA4 and/or anti-PD1 ICB."	1
"32513871"	"CRISPR type II-A subgroups exhibit phylogenetically distinct mechanisms for prespacer insertion.CRISPR-Cas is an adaptive immune system that protects prokaryotes against foreign nucleic acids. Prokaryotes gain immunity by acquiring short pieces of the invading nucleic acid termed prespacers and inserting them into their CRISPR array. In type II-A systems, Cas1 and Cas2 proteins insert prespacers always at the leader-repeat junction of the CRISPR array. Among type II-A CRISPR systems, three distinct groups (G1, G2, and G3) exist according to the extent of DNA sequence conservation at the 3' end of the leader. However, the mechanisms by which these conserved motifs interact with their cognate Cas1 and Cas2 proteins remain unclear. Here, we performed <i>in vitro</i> integration assays, finding that for G1 and G2, the insertion site is recognized through defined mechanisms, at least in members examined to date, whereas G3 exhibits no sequence-specific insertion. G1 first recognized a 12-bp sequence at the leader-repeat junction and performed leader-side insertion before proceeding to spacer-side insertion. G2 recognized the full repeat sequence and could perform independent leader-side or spacer-side insertions, although the leader-side insertion was faster than spacer-side. The prespacer morphology requirements for Cas1-Cas2 varied, with G1 stringently requiring a 5-nucleotide 3' overhang and G2 being able to insert many forms of prespacers with variable efficiencies. These results highlight the intricacy of protein-DNA sequence interactions within the seemingly similar type II-A integration complexes and provide mechanistic insights into prespacer insertion. These interactions can be fine-tuned to expand the Cas1-Cas2 toolset for inserting small DNAs into diverse DNA targets."	0
"31607545"	"Programmable Inhibition and Detection of RNA Viruses Using Cas13.The CRISPR effector Cas13 could be an effective antiviral for single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) viruses because it programmably cleaves RNAs complementary to its CRISPR RNA (crRNA). Here, we computationally identify thousands of potential Cas13 crRNA target sites in hundreds of ssRNA viral species that can potentially infect humans. We experimentally demonstrate Cas13's potent activity against three distinct ssRNA viruses: lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV); influenza A virus (IAV); and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Combining this antiviral activity with Cas13-based diagnostics, we develop Cas13-assisted restriction of viral expression and readout (CARVER), an end-to-end platform that uses Cas13 to detect and destroy viral RNA. We further screen hundreds of crRNAs along the LCMV genome to evaluate how conservation and target RNA nucleotide content influence Cas13's antiviral activity. Our results demonstrate that Cas13 can be harnessed to target a wide range of ssRNA viruses and CARVER's potential broad utility for rapid diagnostic and antiviral drug development."	0
"32937135"	"The GSK-3β-FBXL21 Axis Contributes to Circadian TCAP Degradation and Skeletal Muscle Function.FBXL21 is a clock-controlled E3 ligase modulating circadian periodicity via subcellular-specific CRYPTOCHROME degradation. How FBXL21 regulates tissue-specific circadian physiology and what mechanism operates upstream is poorly understood. Here we report the sarcomere component TCAP as a cytoplasmic substrate of FBXL21. FBXL21 interacts with TCAP in a circadian manner antiphasic to TCAP accumulation in skeletal muscle, and circadian TCAP oscillation is disrupted in Psttm mice with an Fbxl21 hypomorph mutation. GSK-3β phosphorylates FBXL21 and TCAP to activate FBXL21-mediated, phosphodegron-dependent TCAP degradation. GSK-3β inhibition or knockdown diminishes FBXL21-Cul1 complex formation and delays FBXL21-mediated TCAP degradation. Finally, Psttm mice show significant skeletal muscle defects, including impaired fiber size, exercise tolerance, grip strength, and response to glucocorticoid-induced atrophy, in conjunction with cardiac dysfunction. These data highlight a circadian regulatory pathway where a GSK-3β-FBXL21 functional axis controls TCAP degradation via SCF complex formation and regulates skeletal muscle function."	1
"30581144"	"A Compact, High-Accuracy Cas9 with a Dinucleotide PAM for In Vivo Genome Editing.CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing has transformed biotechnology and therapeutics. However, in vivo applications of some Cas9s are hindered by large size (limiting delivery by adeno-associated virus [AAV] vectors), off-target editing, or complex protospacer-adjacent motifs (PAMs) that restrict the density of recognition sequences in target DNA. Here, we exploited natural variation in the PAM-interacting domains (PIDs) of closely related Cas9s to identify a compact ortholog from Neisseria meningitidis-Nme2Cas9-that recognizes a simple dinucleotide PAM (N<sub>4</sub>CC) that provides for high target site density. All-in-one AAV delivery of Nme2Cas9 with a guide RNA targeting Pcsk9 in adult mouse liver produces efficient genome editing and reduced serum cholesterol with exceptionally high specificity. We further expand our single-AAV platform to pre-implanted zygotes for streamlined generation of genome-edited mice. Nme2Cas9 combines all-in-one AAV compatibility, exceptional editing accuracy within cells, and high target site density for in vivo genome editing applications."	0
"32641497"	"A functional role for eicosanoid-lysophospholipids in activating monocyte signaling.Recently, eicosanoid-lysophospholipids were identified as novel metabolites generated from the direct cyclooxygenase- or lipoxygenase-catalyzed oxidation of 2-arachidonoyl-lysophospholipids produced from either phospholipase A<sub>1</sub>-mediated hydrolysis of diacyl arachidonoyl-phospholipids or through the cytochrome <i>c</i>-catalyzed oxidative hydrolysis of the vinyl ether linkage of arachidonoyl-plasmalogens. Although the metabolic pathways generating eicosanoid-lysophospholipids have been increasingly appreciated, the signaling functions of eicosanoid-lysophospholipids remain largely unknown. Herein, we demonstrate that 2-12(<i>S</i>)-HETE-lysophospholipids as well as nonesterified 12(<i>S</i>)-HETE are potent lipid mediators that activate THP-1 human monocytic cells to generate tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) and interleukin 8 (IL8). Remarkably, low nanomolar concentrations of 12(<i>S</i>)-HETE-lysophospholipids, but not other oxidized signaling lipids examined activated THP-1 cells resulting in the production of large amounts of TNFα. Moreover, TNFα release induced by 12(<i>S</i>)-HETE-lysophospholipids was inhibited by the TNFα converting enzyme inhibitor TAPI-0 indicating normal processing of TNFα in THP-1 cells stimulated with these agonists. Western blotting analyses revealed that 12(<i>S</i>)-HETE-lysophospholipids activated the phosphorylation of NFκB p65, suggesting activation of the canonical NFκB signaling pathway. Importantly, activation of THP-1 cells to release TNFα was stereoselective with 12(<i>S</i>)-HETE favored over 12(<i>R</i>)-HETE. Furthermore, the EC<sub>50</sub> of 2-12(<i>S</i>)-HETE-lysophosphatidylcholine in activating THP-1 cells was 2.1 nm, whereas the EC<sub>50</sub> of free 12(<i>S</i>)-HETE was 23 nm Additionally, lipid extracts of activated platelets were separated by RP-HPLC demonstrating the coelution of 12(<i>S</i>)-HETE with fractions initiating TNFα release. Collectively, these results demonstrate the potent signaling properties of 2-12(<i>S</i>)-HETE-lysophospholipids and 12(<i>S</i>)-HETE by their ability to release TNFα and activate NFκB signaling thereby revealing a previously unknown role of 2-12(<i>S</i>)-HETE-lysophospholipids in mediating inflammatory responses."	0
"32516598"	"Endogenous DNA 3' Blocks Are Vulnerabilities for BRCA1 and BRCA2 Deficiency and Are Reversed by the APE2 Nuclease.The APEX2 gene encodes APE2, a nuclease related to APE1, the apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease acting in base excision repair. Loss of APE2 is lethal in cells with mutated BRCA1 or BRCA2, making APE2 a prime target for homologous recombination-defective cancers. However, because the function of APE2 in DNA repair is poorly understood, it is unclear why BRCA-deficient cells require APE2 for viability. Here we present the genetic interaction profiles of APE2, APE1, and TDP1 deficiency coupled to biochemical and structural dissection of APE2. We conclude that the main role of APE2 is to reverse blocked 3' DNA ends, problematic lesions that preclude DNA synthesis. Our work also suggests that TOP1 processing of genomic ribonucleotides is the main source of 3'-blocking lesions relevant to APEX2-BRCA1/2 synthetic lethality. The exquisite sensitivity of BRCA-deficient cells to 3' blocks indicates that they represent a tractable vulnerability in homologous recombination-deficient tumor cells."	0
"32905774"	"CATP-8/P5A ATPase Regulates ER Processing of the DMA-1 Receptor for Dendritic Branching.Dendrite morphogenesis is essential for a neuron to establish its receptive field and is, thus, the anatomical basis for the proper functioning of the nervous system. The molecular mechanisms governing dendrite branching are not fully understood. Using the multi-dendritic PVD neuron in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, we identify CATP-8/P5A ATPase as a key regulator of dendrite branching that controls the translocation of the DMA-1 receptor to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The specific signal peptide of DMA-1 and the ATPase activity of CATP-8 are essential for this process. Our results reveal that P5A ATPase may regulate protein translocation in the ER."	0
"30849395"	"Mitotic CDK Promotes Replisome Disassembly, Fork Breakage, and Complex DNA Rearrangements.DNA replication errors generate complex chromosomal rearrangements and thereby contribute to tumorigenesis and other human diseases. One mechanism that triggers these errors is mitotic entry before the completion of DNA replication. To address how mitosis might affect DNA replication, we used Xenopus egg extracts. When mitotic CDK (Cyclin B1-CDK1) is used to drive interphase egg extracts into a mitotic state, the replicative CMG (CDC45/MCM2-7/GINS) helicase undergoes ubiquitylation on its MCM7 subunit, dependent on the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRAIP. Whether replisomes have stalled or undergone termination, CMG ubiquitylation is followed by its extraction from chromatin by the CDC48/p97 ATPase. TRAIP-dependent CMG unloading during mitosis is also seen in C. elegans early embryos. At stalled forks, CMG removal results in fork breakage and end joining events involving deletions and templated insertions. Our results identify a mitotic pathway of global replisome disassembly that can trigger replication fork collapse and DNA rearrangements."	0
"31495563"	"Transcriptional Responses to IFN-γ Require Mediator Kinase-Dependent Pause Release and Mechanistically Distinct CDK8 and CDK19 Functions.Transcriptional responses to external stimuli remain poorly understood. Using global nuclear run-on followed by sequencing (GRO-seq) and precision nuclear run-on sequencing (PRO-seq), we show that CDK8 kinase activity promotes RNA polymerase II pause release in response to interferon-γ (IFN-γ), a universal cytokine involved in immunity and tumor surveillance. The Mediator kinase module contains CDK8 or CDK19, which are presumed to be functionally redundant. We implemented cortistatin A, chemical genetics, transcriptomics, and other methods to decouple their function while assessing enzymatic versus structural roles. Unexpectedly, CDK8 and CDK19 regulated different gene sets via distinct mechanisms. CDK8-dependent regulation required its kinase activity, whereas CDK19 governed IFN-γ responses through its scaffolding function (i.e., it was kinase independent). Accordingly, CDK8, not CDK19, phosphorylates the STAT1 transcription factor (TF) during IFN-γ stimulation, and CDK8 kinase inhibition blocked activation of JAK-STAT pathway TFs. Cytokines such as IFN-γ rapidly mobilize TFs to ""reprogram"" cellular transcription; our results implicate CDK8 and CDK19 as essential for this transcriptional reprogramming."	1
"32203415"	"Copper is an essential regulator of the autophagic kinases ULK1/2 to drive lung adenocarcinoma.Although the transition metal copper (Cu) is an essential nutrient that is conventionally viewed as a static cofactor within enzyme active sites, a non-traditional role for Cu as a modulator of kinase signalling is emerging. Here, we found that Cu is required for the activity of the autophagic kinases ULK1 and ULK2 (ULK1/2) through a direct Cu-ULK1/2 interaction. Genetic loss of the Cu transporter Ctr1 or mutations in ULK1 that disrupt the binding of Cu reduced ULK1/2-dependent signalling and the formation of autophagosome complexes. Increased levels of intracellular Cu are associated with starvation-induced autophagy and are sufficient to enhance ULK1 kinase activity and, in turn, autophagic flux. The growth and survival of lung tumours driven by KRAS<sup>G12D</sup> is diminished in the absence of Ctr1, is dependent on ULK1 Cu binding and is associated with reduced levels of autophagy and signalling. These findings suggest a molecular basis for exploiting Cu-chelation therapy to prevent autophagy signalling to limit proliferation and improve patient survival in cancer."	1
"32783931"	"Differential Histone Distribution Patterns in Induced Asymmetrically Dividing Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells.Wnt3a-coated beads can induce asymmetric divisions of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), resulting in one self-renewed mESC and one differentiating epiblast stem cell. This provides an opportunity for studying histone inheritance pattern at a single-cell resolution in cell culture. Here, we report that mESCs with Wnt3a-bead induction display nonoverlapping preexisting (old) versus newly synthesized (new) histone H3 patterns, but mESCs without Wnt3a beads have largely overlapping patterns. Furthermore, H4K20me2/3, an old histone-enriched modification, displays a higher instance of asymmetric distribution on chromatin fibers from Wnt3a-induced mESCs than those from non-induced mESCs. These locally distinct distributions between old and new histones have both cellular specificity in Wnt3a-induced mESCs and molecular specificity for histones H3 and H4. Given that post-translational modifications at H3 and H4 carry the major histone modifications, our findings provide a mammalian cell culture system to study histone inheritance for maintaining stem cell fate and for resetting it during differentiation."	0
"32049025"	"Experience-Dependent Development and Maintenance of Binocular Neurons in the Mouse Visual Cortex.The development of neuronal circuits requires both hard-wired gene expression and experience-dependent plasticity. Sensory processing, such as binocular vision, is especially sensitive to perturbations of experience. We investigated the experience-dependent development of the binocular visual cortex at single-cell resolution by using two-photon calcium imaging in awake mice. At eye-opening, the majority of visually responsive neurons are monocular. Binocular neurons emerge later with visual experience and acquire distinct visual response properties. Surprisingly, rather than mirroring the effects of visual deprivation, mice that lack the plasticity gene Arc show increased numbers of binocular neurons and a shift in ocular dominance during development. Strikingly, acutely removing Arc in the adult binocular visual cortex also increases the number of binocular neurons, suggesting that the maintenance of binocular circuits requires ongoing plasticity. Thus, experience-dependent plasticity is critical for the development and maintenance of circuits required to process binocular vision."	0
"32209463"	"Structural Basis for EPC1-Mediated Recruitment of MBTD1 into the NuA4/TIP60 Acetyltransferase Complex.MBTD1, a H4K20me reader, has recently been identified as a component of the NuA4/TIP60 acetyltransferase complex, regulating gene expression and DNA repair. NuA4/TIP60 inhibits 53BP1 binding to chromatin through recognition of the H4K20me mark by MBTD1 and acetylation of H2AK15, blocking the ubiquitination mark required for 53BP1 localization at DNA breaks. The NuA4/TIP60 non-catalytic subunit EPC1 enlists MBTD1 into the complex, but the detailed molecular mechanism remains incompletely explored. Here, we present the crystal structure of the MBTD1-EPC1 complex, revealing a hydrophobic C-terminal fragment of EPC1 engaging the MBT repeats of MBTD1 in a site distinct from the H4K20me binding site. Different cellular assays validate the physiological significance of the key residues involved in the MBTD1-EPC1 interaction. Our study provides a structural framework for understanding the mechanism by which MBTD1 recruits the NuA4/TIP60 acetyltransferase complex to influence transcription and DNA repair pathway choice."	0
"32460012"	"TGF-β-Induced Phosphorylation of Usp9X Stabilizes Ankyrin-G and Regulates Dendritic Spine Development and Maintenance.Signaling by the cytokine transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) has been implicated in a multitude of biological functions; however, TGF-β signaling, particularly in the CNS, remains largely unexplored. ANK3 variants (encoding ankyrin-G) are associated with bipolar disorder, intellectual disability, and autism spectrum disorder, while mutations in USP9X, which encodes a deubiquitinase, are associated with X-linked intellectual disability and autism in humans. Here, we show that TGF-β signaling promotes Usp9X phosphorylation, which enhances its interaction with ankyrin-G and stabilizes ankyrin-G in spines, leading to spine enlargement. Using in situ proximity ligation combined with structured illumination superresolution microscopy, we characterize the postsynaptic spatial organization of phosphorylation-dependent regulation of Usp9X/ankyrin-G interactions in dendrites and its quantitative relationship with spine morphology and number. These data reveal a cytokine-mediated mechanism regulating protein stability in spines and suggest a role for deubiquitination and TGF-β signaling in neurodevelopmental disorder pathogenesis and treatment."	1
"32467225"	"Twist-dependent ratchet functioning downstream from Dorsal revealed using a light-inducible degron.Graded transcription factors are pivotal regulators of embryonic patterning, but whether their role changes over time is unclear. A light-regulated protein degradation system was used to assay temporal dependence of the transcription factor Dorsal in dorsal-ventral axis patterning of <i>Drosophila</i> embryos. Surprisingly, the high-threshold target gene <i>snail</i> only requires Dorsal input early but not late when Dorsal levels peak. Instead, late <i>snail</i> expression can be supported by action of the Twist transcription factor, specifically, through one enhancer, <i>sna.distal</i> This study demonstrates that continuous input is not required for some Dorsal targets and downstream responses, such as <i>twist</i>, function as molecular ratchets."	0
"32905768"	"The Negative Cross-Talk between SAG/RBX2/ROC2 and APC/C E3 Ligases in Regulation of Cell Cycle Progression and Drug Resistance.Anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is a well-characterized E3 ligase that couples with UBE2C and UBE2S E2s for substrate ubiquitylation by the K11 linkage. Our recent data show that SAG/RBX2/ROC2, a RING component of Cullin-RING E3 ligase, also complexes with these E2s for K11-linked substrate polyubiquitylation. Whether these two E3s cross-talk with each other was previously unknown. Here, we report that SAG competes with APC2 for UBE2C/UBE2S binding to act as a potential endogenous inhibitor of APC/C, thereby regulating the G2-to-M progression. As such, SAG knockdown triggers premature activation of APC/C, leading to mitotic slippage and resistance to anti-microtubule drugs. On the other hand, SAG itself is a substrate of APC/C<sup>CDH1</sup> for targeted degradation at the G1 phase. The degradation-resistant mutant of SAG-R98A/L101A accelerates the G1-to-S progression. Our study reveals that the negative cross-talk between SAG and APC/C is likely a mechanism to ensure the fidelity of cell cycle progression."	1
"32610139"	"Atrx Deletion in Neurons Leads to Sexually Dimorphic Dysregulation of miR-137 and Spatial Learning and Memory Deficits.ATRX gene mutations have been identified in syndromic and non-syndromic intellectual disabilities in humans. ATRX is known to maintain genomic stability in neuroprogenitor cells, but its function in differentiated neurons and memory processes remains largely unresolved. Here, we show that the deletion of neuronal Atrx in mice leads to distinct hippocampal structural defects, fewer presynaptic vesicles, and an enlarged postsynaptic area at CA1 apical dendrite-axon junctions. We identify male-specific impairments in long-term contextual memory and in synaptic gene expression, linked to altered miR-137 levels. We show that ATRX directly binds to the miR-137 locus and that the enrichment of the suppressive histone mark H3K27me3 is significantly reduced upon the loss of ATRX. We conclude that the ablation of ATRX in excitatory forebrain neurons leads to sexually dimorphic effects on miR-137 expression and on spatial memory, identifying a potential therapeutic target for neurological defects caused by ATRX dysfunction."	1
"32601062"	"PelX is a UDP-<i>N</i>-acetylglucosamine C4-epimerase involved in Pel polysaccharide-dependent biofilm formation.Pel is a GalNAc-rich bacterial polysaccharide that contributes to the structure and function of <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> biofilms. The <i>pelABCDEFG</i> operon is highly conserved among diverse bacterial species, and Pel may therefore be a widespread biofilm determinant. Previous annotation of <i>pel</i> gene clusters has helped us identify an additional gene, <i>pelX</i>, that is present adjacent to <i>pelABCDEFG</i> in >100 different bacterial species. The <i>pelX</i> gene is predicted to encode a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) superfamily, but its potential role in Pel-dependent biofilm formation is unknown. Herein, we have used <i>Pseudomonas protegens</i> Pf-5 as a model to elucidate PelX function as <i>Pseudomonas aeruginosa</i> lacks a <i>pelX</i> homologue in its <i>pel</i> gene cluster. We found that <i>P. protegens</i> forms Pel-dependent biofilms; however, despite expression of <i>pelX</i> under these conditions, biofilm formation was unaffected in a Δ<i>pelX</i> strain. This observation led us to identify a <i>pelX</i> paralogue, PFL_5533, which we designate here PgnE, that appears to be functionally redundant to <i>pelX</i> In line with this, a Δ<i>pelX</i> Δ<i>pgnE</i> double mutant was substantially impaired in its ability to form Pel-dependent biofilms. To understand the molecular basis for this observation, we determined the structure of PelX to 2.1 Å resolution. The structure revealed that PelX resembles UDP-GlcNAc C4-epimerases. Using <sup>1</sup>H NMR analysis, we show that PelX catalyzes the epimerization between UDP-GlcNAc and UDP-GalNAc. Our results indicate that Pel-dependent biofilm formation requires a UDP-GlcNAc C4-epimerase that generates the UDP-GalNAc precursors required by the Pel synthase machinery for polymer production."	0
"30898439"	"Inheritance of a Phenotypically Neutral Epimutation Evokes Gene Silencing in Later Generations.Small RNAs trigger the formation of epialleles that are silenced across generations. Consequently, RNA-directed epimutagenesis is associated with persistent gene repression. Here, we demonstrate that small interfering RNA-induced epimutations in fission yeast are still inherited even when the silenced gene is reactivated, and descendants can reinstate the silencing phenotype that only occurred in their ancestors. This process is mediated by the deposition of a phenotypically neutral molecular mark composed of tri-methylated histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9me3). Its stable propagation is coupled to RNAi and requires maximal binding affinity of the Clr4/Suvar39 chromodomain to H3K9me3. In wild-type cells, this mark has no visible impact on transcription but causes gene silencing if RNA polymerase-associated factor 1 complex (Paf1C) activity is impaired. In sum, our results reveal a distinct form of epigenetic memory in which cells acquire heritable, transcriptionally active epialleles that confer gene silencing upon modulation of Paf1C."	0
"31914396"	"Molecular Mechanism of RNA Recognition by Zinc-Finger Antiviral Protein.Zinc-finger antiviral protein (ZAP) is a host antiviral factor that specifically restricts a wide range of viruses. ZAP selectively binds to CG-dinucleotide-enriched RNA sequences and recruits multiple RNA degradation machines to degrade target viral RNA. However, the molecular mechanism and structural basis for ZAP recognition of specific RNA are not clear. Here, we report the crystal structure of the ZAP N-terminal domain bound to a CG-rich single-stranded RNA, providing the molecular basis for its specific recognition of a CG dinucleotide and additional guanine and cytosine. The four zinc fingers of ZAP adopt a unique architecture and form extensive interactions with RNA. Mutations of both protein and RNA at the RNA-ZAP interacting surface reduce the in vitro binding affinity and cellular antiviral activity. This work reveals the molecular mechanism of ZAP recognition of specific target RNA and also provides insights into the mechanism by which ZAP coordinates downstream RNA degradation processes."	0
"30901562"	"TARGET-seq Takes Aim at Cancer Evolution through Multi-omics Single-Cell Genotyping and Transcriptomics.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Rodriguez-Meira et al. (2019) present TARGET-seq, an elegant single-cell method that genotypes somatic mutations and captures whole transcriptomes in the same tumor cells, thus paving the way to directly link somatic mutations with resulting transcriptional phenotypes in clonally diverse cancer populations."	0
"32571873"	"Runt-related transcription factor 1 is required for murine osteoblast differentiation and bone formation.Despite years of research investigating osteoblast differentiation, the mechanisms by which transcription factors regulate osteoblast maturation, bone formation, and bone homeostasis is still unclear. It has been reported that runt-related transcription factor 1 (<i>Runx1</i>) is expressed in osteoblast progenitors, pre-osteoblasts, and mature osteoblasts; yet, surprisingly, the exact function of RUNX1 in osteoblast maturation and bone formation remains unknown. Here, we generated and characterized a pre-osteoblast and differentiating chondrocyte-specific <i>Runx1</i> conditional knockout mouse model to study RUNX1's function in bone formation. <i>Runx1</i> ablation in osteoblast precursors and differentiating chondrocytes via osterix-Cre (Osx-Cre) resulted in an osteoporotic phenotype and decreased bone density in the long bones and skulls of <i>Runx1<sup>f/f</sup>Osx-Cre</i> mice compared with <i>Runx1<sup>f/f</sup></i> and <i>Osx-Cre</i> mice. RUNX1 deficiency reduced the expression of SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), Indian hedgehog signaling molecule (IHH), Patched (PTC), and cyclin D1 in the growth plate, and also reduced the expression of osteocalcin (OCN), OSX, activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4), and RUNX2 in osteoblasts. ChIP assays and promoter activity mapping revealed that RUNX1 directly associates with the <i>Runx2</i> gene promoter and up-regulates <i>Runx2</i> expression. Furthermore, the ChIP data also showed that RUNX1 associates with the <i>Ocn</i> promoter. In conclusion, RUNX1 up-regulates the expression of <i>Runx2</i> and multiple bone-specific genes, and plays an indispensable role in bone formation and homeostasis in both trabecular and cortical bone. We propose that stimulating <i>Runx1</i> activity may be useful in therapeutic approaches for managing some bone diseases such as osteoporosis."	1
"31995750"	"Cross-talk between CD38 and TTP Is Essential for Resolution of Inflammation during Microbial Sepsis.The resolution phase of acute inflammation is essential for tissue homeostasis, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We demonstrate that resolution of inflammation involves interactions between CD38 and tristetraprolin (TTP). During the onset of acute inflammation, CD38 levels are increased, leading to the production of Ca<sup>2+</sup>-signaling messengers, nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP), ADP ribose (ADPR), and cyclic ADPR (cADPR) from NAD(P)<sup>+</sup>. To initiate the onset of resolution, TTP expression is increased by the second messengers, NAADP and cADPR, which downregulate CD38 expression. The activation of TTP by Sirt1-dependent deacetylation, in response to increased NAD<sup>+</sup> levels, suppresses the acute inflammatory response and decreases Rheb expression, inhibits mTORC1, and induces autophagolysosomes for bacterial clearance. TTP may represent a mechanistic target of anti-inflammatory agents, such as carbon monoxide. TTP mediates crosstalk between acute inflammation and autophagic clearance of bacteria from damaged tissue in the resolution of inflammation during sepsis."	1
"31491424"	"A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing: Chromosomal Pathogenicity Islands Co-opt Phage Capsids to Facilitate Horizontal Spread.Fillol-Salom et al. describe a mechanism by which an Escherichia coli pathogenicity island is preferentially packaged into a phage particle, thus promoting the spread of pathogenic traits among Gram-negative bacteria while protecting them from lytic infection."	0
"32294439"	"Hotspots of Aberrant Enhancer Activity in Fibrolamellar Carcinoma Reveal Candidate Oncogenic Pathways and Therapeutic Vulnerabilities.Fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is a rare, therapeutically intractable liver cancer that disproportionately affects youth. Although FLC tumors exhibit a distinct gene expression profile, the chromatin regulatory landscape and the genes most critical for tumor cell survival remain unclear. Here, we use chromatin run-on sequencing to discover ∼7,000 enhancers and 141 enhancer hotspots activated in FLC relative to nonmalignant liver. Bioinformatic analyses reveal aberrant ERK/MEK signaling and candidate master transcriptional regulators. We also define the genes most strongly associated with hotspots of FLC enhancer activity, including CA12 and SLC16A14. Treatment of FLC cell models with inhibitors of CA12 or SLC16A14 independently reduce cell viability and/or significantly enhance the effect of the MEK inhibitor cobimetinib. These findings highlight molecular targets for drug development, as well as drug combination approaches."	0
"30527665"	"Phosphorylated RB Promotes Cancer Immunity by Inhibiting NF-κB Activation and PD-L1 Expression.Aberrant expression of programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) in tumor cells promotes cancer progression by suppressing cancer immunity. The retinoblastoma protein RB is a tumor suppressor known to regulate the cell cycle, DNA damage response, and differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that RB interacts with nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) protein p65 and that their interaction is primarily dependent on CDK4/6-mediated serine-249/threonine-252 (S249/T252) phosphorylation of RB. RNA-seq analysis shows a subset of NF-κB pathway genes including PD-L1 are selectively upregulated by RB knockdown or CDK4/6 inhibitor. S249/T252-phosphorylated RB inversely correlates with PD-L1 expression in patient samples. Expression of a RB-derived S249/T252 phosphorylation-mimetic peptide suppresses radiotherapy-induced upregulation of PD-L1 and augments therapeutic efficacy of radiation in vivo. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized tumor suppressor function of hyperphosphorylated RB in suppressing NF-κB activity and PD-L1 expression and suggest that the RB-NF-κB axis can be exploited to overcome cancer immune evasion triggered by conventional or targeted therapies."	1
"31422874"	"Naa10p Inhibits Beige Adipocyte-Mediated Thermogenesis through N-α-acetylation of Pgc1α.Diet-induced obesity can be caused by impaired thermogenesis of beige adipocytes, the brown-like adipocytes in white adipose tissue (WAT). Promoting brown-like features in WAT has been an attractive therapeutic approach for obesity. However, the mechanism underlying beige adipocyte formation is largely unknown. N-α-acetyltransferase 10 protein (Naa10p) catalyzes N-α-acetylation of nascent proteins, and overexpression of human Naa10p is linked to cancer development. Here, we report that both conventional and adipose-specific Naa10p deletions in mice result in increased energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and beige adipocyte differentiation. Mechanistically, Naa10p acetylates the N terminus of Pgc1α, which prevents Pgc1α from interacting with Pparγ to activate key genes, such as Ucp1, involved in beige adipocyte function. Consistently, fat tissues of obese human individuals show higher NAA10 expression. Thus, Naa10p-mediated N-terminal acetylation of Pgc1α downregulates thermogenic gene expression, making inhibition of Naa10p enzymatic activity a potential strategy for treating obesity."	1
"31812349"	"Functional Translatome Proteomics Reveal Converging and Dose-Dependent Regulation by mTORC1 and eIF2α.Regulation of translation is essential during stress. However, the precise sets of proteins regulated by the key translational stress responses-the integrated stress response (ISR) and mTORC1-remain elusive. We developed multiplexed enhanced protein dynamics (mePROD) proteomics, adding signal amplification to dynamic-SILAC and multiplexing, to enable measuring acute changes in protein synthesis. Treating cells with ISR/mTORC1-modulating stressors, we showed extensive translatome modulation with ∼20% of proteins synthesized at highly reduced rates. Comparing translation-deficient sub-proteomes revealed an extensive overlap demonstrating that target specificity is achieved on protein level and not by pathway activation. Titrating cap-dependent translation inhibition confirmed that synthesis of individual proteins is controlled by intrinsic properties responding to global translation attenuation. This study reports a highly sensitive method to measure relative translation at the nascent chain level and provides insight into how the ISR and mTORC1, two key cellular pathways, regulate the translatome to guide cellular survival upon stress."	0
"32273287"	"REDD1 loss reprograms lipid metabolism to drive progression of <i>RAS</i> mutant tumors.Human cancers with activating <i>RAS</i> mutations are typically highly aggressive and treatment-refractory, yet <i>RAS</i> mutation itself is insufficient for tumorigenesis, due in part to profound metabolic stress induced by RAS activation. Here we show that loss of REDD1, a stress-induced metabolic regulator, is sufficient to reprogram lipid metabolism and drive progression of <i>RAS</i> mutant cancers. <i>Redd1</i> deletion in genetically engineered mouse models (GEMMs) of KRAS-dependent pancreatic and lung adenocarcinomas converts preneoplastic lesions into invasive and metastatic carcinomas. Metabolic profiling reveals that REDD1-deficient/<i>RAS</i> mutant cells exhibit enhanced uptake of lysophospholipids and lipid storage, coupled to augmented fatty acid oxidation that sustains both ATP levels and ROS-detoxifying NADPH. Mechanistically, REDD1 loss triggers HIF-dependent activation of a lipid storage pathway involving PPARγ and the prometastatic factor CD36. Correspondingly, decreased REDD1 expression and a signature of REDD1 loss predict poor outcomes selectively in <i>RAS</i> mutant but not <i>RAS</i> wild-type human lung and pancreas carcinomas. Collectively, our findings reveal the REDD1-mediated stress response as a novel tumor suppressor whose loss defines a <i>RAS</i> mutant tumor subset characterized by reprogramming of lipid metabolism, invasive and metastatic progression, and poor prognosis. This work thus provides new mechanistic and clinically relevant insights into the phenotypic heterogeneity and metabolic rewiring that underlies these common cancers."	0
"31940479"	"Neuroinflammation-Associated Aspecific Manipulation of Mouse Predator Fear by Toxoplasma gondii.In rodents, the decrease of felid aversion induced by Toxoplasma gondii, a phenomenon termed fatal attraction, is interpreted as an adaptive manipulation by the neurotropic protozoan parasite. With the aim of understanding how the parasite induces such specific behavioral modifications, we performed a multiparametric analysis of T. gondii-induced changes on host behavior, physiology, and brain transcriptome as well as parasite cyst load and distribution. Using a set of complementary behavioral tests, we provide strong evidence that T. gondii lowers general anxiety in infected mice, increases explorative behaviors, and surprisingly alters predator aversion without selectivity toward felids. Furthermore, we show a positive correlation between the severity of the behavioral alterations and the cyst load, which indirectly reflects the level of inflammation during brain colonization. Taken together, these findings refute the myth of a selective loss of cat fear in T. gondii-infected mice and point toward widespread immune-related alterations of behaviors."	0
"32783940"	"FOXK1 Participates in DNA Damage Response by Controlling 53BP1 Function.53BP1 plays a central role in dictating DNA repair choice between non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR), which is important for the sensitivity to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPis) of BRCA1-deficient cancers. In this study, we show that FOXK1 associates with 53BP1 and regulates 53BP1-dependent functions. FOXK1-53BP1 interaction is significantly enhanced upon DNA damage during the S phase in an ATM/CHK2-dependent manner, which reduces the association of 53BP1 with its downstream factors RIF1 and PTIP. Depletion of FOXK1 impairs DNA repair and induces compromised cell survival upon DNA damage. Overexpression of FOXK1 diminishes 53BP1 foci formation, which leads to resistance to PARPis and elevation of HR in BRCA1-deficient cells and decreased telomere fusion in TRF2-depleted cells. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that FOXK1 negatively regulates 53BP1 function by inhibiting 53BP1 localization to sites of DNA damage, which alters the DSB-induced protein complexes centering on 53BP1 and thus influences DNA repair choice."	1
"31914388"	"The Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Delta Regulates Developmental Neurogenesis.PTPRD is a receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase that is genetically associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we asked whether Ptprd mutations cause aberrant neural development by perturbing neurogenesis in the murine cortex. We show that loss of Ptprd causes increases in neurogenic transit-amplifying intermediate progenitor cells and cortical neurons and perturbations in neuronal localization. These effects are intrinsic to neural precursor cells since acute Ptprd knockdown causes similar perturbations. PTPRD mediates these effects by dephosphorylating receptor tyrosine kinases, including TrkB and PDGFRβ, and loss of Ptprd causes the hyperactivation of TrkB and PDGFRβ and their downstream MEK-ERK signaling pathway in neural precursor cells. Moreover, inhibition of aberrant TrkB or MEK activation rescues the increased neurogenesis caused by knockdown or homozygous loss of Ptprd. These results suggest that PTPRD regulates receptor tyrosine kinases to ensure appropriate numbers of intermediate progenitor cells and neurons, suggesting a mechanism for its genetic association with neurodevelopmental disorders."	1
"32521261"	"Dietary Adaptation of Microbiota in Drosophila Requires NF-κB-Dependent Control of the Translational Regulator 4E-BP.Dietary nutrients shape complex interactions between hosts and their commensal gut bacteria, further promoting flexibility in host-microbiota associations that can drive nutritional symbiosis. However, it remains less clear if diet-dependent host signaling mechanisms also influence these associations. Using Drosophila, we show here that nuclear factor κB (NF-κB)/Relish, an innate immune transcription factor emerging as a signaling node linking nutrient-immune-metabolic interactions, is vital to adapt gut microbiota species composition to host diet macronutrient composition. We find that Relish is required within midgut enterocytes to amplify host-Lactobacillus associations, an important bacterial mediator of nutritional symbiosis, and thus modulate microbiota composition in response to dietary adaptation. Relish limits diet-dependent transcriptional inducibility of the cap-dependent translation inhibitor 4E-BP/Thor to control microbiota composition. Furthermore, maintaining cap-dependent translation in response to dietary adaptation is critical to amplify host-Lactobacillus associations. These results highlight that NF-κB-dependent host signaling mechanisms, in coordination with host translation control, shape diet-microbiota interactions."	0
"32075734"	"Regulatory Dynamics of Tet1 and Oct4 Resolve Stages of Global DNA Demethylation and Transcriptomic Changes in Reprogramming.Reprogramming somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) involves the reactivation of endogenous pluripotency genes and global DNA demethylation, but temporal resolution of these events using existing markers is limited. Here, we generate murine transgenic lines harboring reporters for the 5-methylcytosine dioxygenase Tet1 and for Oct4. By monitoring dual reporter fluorescence during pluripotency entry, we identify a sequential order of Tet1 and Oct4 activation by proximal and distal regulatory elements. Full Tet1 activation marks an intermediate stage that accompanies predominantly repression of somatic genes, preceding full Oct4 activation, and distinguishes two waves of global DNA demethylation that target distinct genomic features but are uncoupled from transcriptional changes. Tet1 knockout shows that TET1 contributes to both waves of demethylation and activates germline regulatory genes in reprogramming intermediates but is dispensable for Oct4 reactivation. Our dual reporter system for time-resolving pluripotency entry thus refines the molecular roadmap of iPSC maturation."	0
"32554463"	"The polycomb proteins EZH1 and EZH2 co-regulate chromatin accessibility and nephron progenitor cell lifespan in mice.SIX2 (SIX homeobox 2)-positive nephron progenitor cells (NPCs) give rise to all epithelial cell types of the nephron, the filtering unit of the kidney. NPCs have a limited lifespan and are depleted near the time of birth. Epigenetic factors are implicated in the maintenance of organ-restricted progenitors such as NPCs, but the chromatin-based mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here, using a combination of gene targeting, chromatin profiling, and single-cell RNA analysis, we examined the role of the murine histone 3 Lys-27 (H3K27) methyltransferases EZH1 (enhancer of zeste 1) and EZH2 in NPC maintenance. We found that EZH2 expression correlates with NPC growth potential and that EZH2 is the dominant H3K27 methyltransferase in NPCs and epithelial descendants. Surprisingly, NPCs lacking H3K27 trimethylation maintained their progenitor state but cycled slowly, leading to a smaller NPC pool and formation of fewer nephrons. Unlike <i>Ezh2</i> loss of function, dual inactivation of <i>Ezh1</i> and <i>Ezh2</i> triggered overexpression of the transcriptional repressor Hes-related family BHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1 (<i>Hey1</i>), down-regulation of <i>Six2</i>, and unscheduled activation of Wnt4-driven differentiation, resulting in early termination of nephrogenesis and severe renal dysgenesis. Double-mutant NPCs also overexpressed the SIX family member <i>Six1</i> However, in this context, SIX1 failed to maintain NPC stemness. At the chromatin level, EZH1 and EZH2 restricted accessibility to AP-1-binding motifs, and their absence promoted a regulatory landscape akin to differentiated and nonlineage cells. We conclude that EZH2 is required for NPC renewal potential and that tempering of the differentiation program requires cooperation of both EZH1 and EZH2."	0
"32492424"	"Critical Roles of Translation Initiation and RNA Uridylation in Endogenous Retroviral Expression and Neural Differentiation in Pluripotent Stem Cells.Previous studies have suggested that the loss of the translation initiation factor eIF4G1 homolog NAT1 induces excessive self-renewability of naive pluripotent stem cells (PSCs); yet the role of NAT1 in the self-renewal and differentiation of primed PSCs is still unclear. Here, we generate a conditional knockout of NAT1 in primed PSCs and use the cells for the functional analyses of NAT1. Our results show that NAT1 is required for the self-renewal and neural differentiation of primed PSCs. In contrast, NAT1 deficiency in naive pluripotency attenuates the differentiation to all cell types. We also find that NAT1 is involved in efficient protein expression of an RNA uridyltransferase, TUT7. TUT7 is involved in the neural differentiation of primed PSCs via the regulation of human endogenous retrovirus accumulation. These data demonstrate the essential roles of NAT1 and TUT7 in the precise transition of stem cell fate."	1
"31628042"	"PTPS Facilitates Compartmentalized LTBP1 S-Nitrosylation and Promotes Tumor Growth under Hypoxia.GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH), 6-pyruvoyltetrahydropterin synthase (PTPS), and sepiapterin reductase (SR) are sequentially responsible for de novo synthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), a known co-factor for nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The implication of BH4-biosynthesis process in tumorigenesis remains to be investigated. Here, we show that PTPS, which is highly expressed in early-stage colorectal cancer, is phosphorylated at Thr 58 by AMPK under hypoxia; this phosphorylation promotes PTPS binding to LTBP1 and subsequently drives iNOS-mediated LTBP1 S-nitrosylation through proximal-coupling BH4 production within the PTPS/iNOS/LTBP1 complex. In turn, LTBP1 S-nitrosylation results in proteasome-dependent LTBP1 protein degradation, revealing an inverse relationship between PTPS pT58 and LTBP1 stability. Physiologically, the repressive effect of PTPS on LTBP1 leads to impaired transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) secretion and thereby maintains tumor cell growth under hypoxia. Our findings illustrate a molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of LTBP1-TGF-β signaling by the BH4-biosynthesis pathway and highlight the specific requirement of PTPS for tumor growth."	1
"32531208"	"Structural and Biochemical Characterization of the nsp12-nsp7-nsp8 Core Polymerase Complex from SARS-CoV-2.The ongoing global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has caused a huge number of human deaths. Currently, there are no specific drugs or vaccines available for this virus (SARS-CoV-2). The viral polymerase is a promising antiviral target. Here, we describe the near-atomic-resolution structure of the SARS-CoV-2 polymerase complex consisting of the nsp12 catalytic subunit and nsp7-nsp8 cofactors. This structure highly resembles the counterpart of SARS-CoV with conserved motifs for all viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases and suggests a mechanism of activation by cofactors. Biochemical studies reveal reduced activity of the core polymerase complex and lower thermostability of individual subunits of SARS-CoV-2 compared with SARS-CoV. These findings provide important insights into RNA synthesis by coronavirus polymerase and indicate adaptation of SARS-CoV-2 toward humans with a relatively lower body temperature than the natural bat hosts."	1
"31327635"	"Unique Structural Features of the Mitochondrial AAA+ Protease AFG3L2 Reveal the Molecular Basis for Activity in Health and Disease.Mitochondrial AAA+ quality-control proteases regulate diverse aspects of mitochondrial biology through specialized protein degradation, but the underlying mechanisms of these enzymes remain poorly defined. The mitochondrial AAA+ protease AFG3L2 is of particular interest, as genetic mutations localized throughout AFG3L2 are linked to diverse neurodegenerative disorders. However, a lack of structural data has limited our understanding of how mutations impact enzymatic function. Here, we used cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) to determine a substrate-bound structure of the catalytic core of human AFG3L2. This structure identifies multiple specialized structural features that integrate with conserved motifs required for ATP-dependent translocation to unfold and degrade targeted proteins. Many disease-relevant mutations localize to these unique structural features of AFG3L2 and distinctly influence its activity and stability. Our results provide a molecular basis for neurological phenotypes associated with different AFG3L2 mutations and establish a structural framework to understand how different members of the AAA+ superfamily achieve specialized biological functions."	0
"32877675"	"Controlled Cycling and Quiescence Enables Efficient HDR in Engraftment-Enriched Adult Hematopoietic Stem and Progenitor Cells.Genome editing often takes the form of either error-prone sequence disruption by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) or sequence replacement by homology-directed repair (HDR). Although NHEJ is generally effective, HDR is often difficult in primary cells. Here, we use a combination of immunophenotyping, next-generation sequencing, and single-cell RNA sequencing to investigate and reprogram genome editing outcomes in subpopulations of adult hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. We find that although quiescent stem-enriched cells mostly use NHEJ, non-quiescent cells with the same immunophenotype use both NHEJ and HDR. Inducing quiescence before editing results in a loss of HDR in all cell subtypes. We develop a strategy of controlled cycling and quiescence that yields a 6-fold increase in the HDR/NHEJ ratio in quiescent stem cells ex vivo and in vivo. Our results highlight the tension between editing and cellular physiology and suggest strategies to manipulate quiescent cells for research and therapeutic genome editing."	0
"31980388"	"A Cancer-Specific Ubiquitin Ligase Drives mRNA Alternative Polyadenylation by Ubiquitinating the mRNA 3' End Processing Complex.Alternative polyadenylation (APA) contributes to transcriptome complexity by generating mRNA isoforms with varying 3' UTR lengths. APA leading to 3' UTR shortening (3' US) is a common feature of most cancer cells; however, the molecular mechanisms are not understood. Here, we describe a widespread mechanism promoting 3' US in cancer through ubiquitination of the mRNA 3' end processing complex protein, PCF11, by the cancer-specific MAGE-A11-HUWE1 ubiquitin ligase. MAGE-A11 is normally expressed only in the male germline but is frequently re-activated in cancers. MAGE-A11 is necessary for cancer cell viability and is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis. Screening for targets of MAGE-A11 revealed that it ubiquitinates PCF11, resulting in loss of CFIm25 from the mRNA 3' end processing complex. This leads to APA of many transcripts affecting core oncogenic and tumor suppressors, including cyclin D2 and PTEN. These findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms driving APA in cancer and suggest therapeutic strategies."	1
"32518165"	"Post-translational modifications of Hsp70 family proteins: Expanding the chaperone code.Cells must be able to cope with the challenge of folding newly synthesized proteins and refolding those that have become misfolded in the context of a crowded cytosol. One such coping mechanism that has appeared during evolution is the expression of well-conserved molecular chaperones, such as those that are part of the heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) family of proteins that bind and fold a large proportion of the proteome. Although Hsp70 family chaperones have been extensively examined for the last 50 years, most studies have focused on regulation of Hsp70 activities by altered transcription, co-chaperone ""helper"" proteins, and ATP binding and hydrolysis. The rise of modern proteomics has uncovered a vast array of post-translational modifications (PTMs) on Hsp70 family proteins that include phosphorylation, acetylation, ubiquitination, AMPylation, and ADP-ribosylation. Similarly to the pattern of histone modifications, the histone code, this complex pattern of chaperone PTMs is now known as the ""chaperone code."" In this review, we discuss the history of the Hsp70 chaperone code, its currently understood regulation and functions, and thoughts on what the future of research into the chaperone code may entail."	0
"31677974"	"Control of RNA Pol II Speed by PNUTS-PP1 and Spt5 Dephosphorylation Facilitates Termination by a ""Sitting Duck Torpedo"" Mechanism.Control of transcription speed, which influences many co-transcriptional processes, is poorly understood. We report that PNUTS-PP1 phosphatase is a negative regulator of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) elongation rate. The PNUTS W401A mutation, which disrupts PP1 binding, causes genome-wide acceleration of transcription associated with hyper-phosphorylation of the Spt5 elongation factor. Immediately downstream of poly(A) sites, Pol II decelerates from >2 kb/min to <1 kb/min, which correlates with Spt5 dephosphorylation. Pol II deceleration and Spt5 dephosphorylation require poly(A) site recognition and the PNUTS-PP1 complex, which is in turn necessary for transcription termination. These results lead to a model for termination, the ""sitting duck torpedo"" mechanism, where poly(A) site-dependent deceleration caused by PNUTS-PP1 and Spt5 dephosphorylation is required to convert Pol II into a viable target for the Xrn2 terminator exonuclease. Spt5 and its bacterial homolog NusG therefore have related functions controlling kinetic competition between RNA polymerases and the termination factors that pursue them."	1
"32814047"	"Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzyme 2S Enhances Viral Replication by Inhibiting Type I IFN Production through Recruiting USP15 to Deubiquitinate TBK1.Type I interferon (IFN) plays an essential role in the host innate immune responses. Several ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) family members were reported to regulate type I IFN production and host antiviral immune responses. However, the molecular mechanisms are still not fully understood. Here, we report that UBE2S acts as a negative regulator in the type I IFN signaling pathway. Ectopic expression of UBE2S inhibits host antiviral immune responses and enhances viral replications, whereas deficiency of UBE2S enhances host antiviral immune responses and suppresses viral replications both in vitro and in vivo. Inhibition of type І IFN production by UBE2S is independent on its E2 and E3 enzymic activity. Mechanistically, UBE2S interacts with TBK1 and recruits ubiquitin-specific protease 15 (USP15) to remove Lys63 (K63)-linked polyubiquitin chains of TBK1. Our findings reveal a role of the UBE2S-USP15-TBK1 axis in the regulation of host antiviral innate immune responses."	1
"32669362"	"Ubiquitin ligase SMURF2 enhances epidermal growth factor receptor stability and tyrosine-kinase inhibitor resistance.The discovery of activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations spurred the use of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as erlotinib, as the first-line treatment of lung cancers. We previously reported that differential degradation of TKI-sensitive (<i>e.g.</i> L858R) and resistant (T790M) EGFR mutants upon erlotinib treatment correlates with drug sensitivity. We also reported that SMAD ubiquitination regulatory factor 2 (SMURF2) ligase activity is important in stabilizing EGFR. However, the molecular mechanisms involved remain unclear. Here, using <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> ubiquitination assays, MS, and superresolution microscopy, we show SMURF2-EGFR functional interaction is important for EGFR stability and response to TKI. We demonstrate that L858R/T790M EGFR is preferentially stabilized by SMURF2-UBCH5 (an E3-E2)-mediated polyubiquitination. We identified four lysine residues as the sites of ubiquitination and showed that replacement of one of them with acetylation-mimicking glutamine increases the sensitivity of mutant EGFR to erlotinib-induced degradation. We show that SMURF2 extends membrane retention of EGF-bound EGFR, whereas <i>SMURF2</i> knockdown increases receptor sorting to lysosomes. In lung cancer cell lines, SMURF2 overexpression increased EGFR levels, improving TKI tolerance, whereas <i>SMURF2</i> knockdown decreased EGFR steady-state levels and sensitized lung cancer cells. Overall, we propose that SMURF2-mediated polyubiquitination of L858R/T790M EGFR competes with acetylation-mediated receptor internalization that correlates with enhanced receptor stability; therefore, disruption of the E3-E2 complex may be an attractive target to overcome TKI resistance."	1
"32187550"	"miR-181a Modulation of ERK-MAPK Signaling Sustains DC-SIGN Expression and Limits Activation of Monocyte-Derived Dendritic Cells.DC-SIGN<sup>+</sup> monocyte-derived dendritic cells (mo-DCs) play important roles in bacterial infections and inflammatory diseases, but the factors regulating their differentiation and proinflammatory status remain poorly defined. Here, we identify a microRNA, miR-181a, and a molecular mechanism that simultaneously regulate the acquisition of DC-SIGN expression and the activation state of DC-SIGN<sup>+</sup> mo-DCs. Specifically, we show that miR-181a promotes DC-SIGN expression during terminal mo-DC differentiation and limits its sensitivity and responsiveness to TLR triggering and CD40 ligation. Mechanistically, miR-181a sustains ERK-MAPK signaling in mo-DCs, thereby enabling the maintenance of high levels of DC-SIGN and a high activation threshold. Low miR-181a levels during mo-DC differentiation, induced by inflammatory signals, do not support the high phospho-ERK signal transduction required for DC-SIGN<sup>hi</sup> mo-DCs and lead to development of proinflammatory DC-SIGN<sup>lo/-</sup> mo-DCs. Collectively, our study demonstrates that high DC-SIGN expression levels and a high activation threshold in mo-DCs are linked and simultaneously maintained by miR-181a."	1
"30472192"	"Comparative Analysis of Droplet-Based Ultra-High-Throughput Single-Cell RNA-Seq Systems.Since its establishment in 2009, single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) has been a major driver behind progress in biomedical research. In developmental biology and stem cell studies, the ability to profile single cells confers particular benefits. Although most studies still focus on individual tissues or organs, the recent development of ultra-high-throughput single-cell RNA-seq has demonstrated potential power in characterizing more complex systems or even the entire body. However, although multiple ultra-high-throughput single-cell RNA-seq systems have attracted attention, no systematic comparison of these systems has been performed. Here, with the same cell line and bioinformatics pipeline, we developed directly comparable datasets for each of three widely used droplet-based ultra-high-throughput single-cell RNA-seq systems, inDrop, Drop-seq, and 10X Genomics Chromium. Although each system is capable of profiling single-cell transcriptomes, their detailed comparison revealed the distinguishing features and suitable applications for each system."	0
"32580943"	"In-cell infrared difference spectroscopy of LOV photoreceptors reveals structural responses to light altered in living cells.Proteins are usually studied in well-defined buffer conditions, which differ substantially from those within a host cell. In some cases, the intracellular environment has an impact on the mechanism, which might be missed by <i>in vitro</i> experiments. IR difference spectroscopy previously has been applied to study the light-induced response of photoreceptors and photoenzymes <i>in vitro</i> Here, we established the in-cell IR difference (ICIRD) spectroscopy in the transmission and attenuated total reflection configuration to investigate the light-induced response of soluble proteins in living bacterial cells. ICIRD spectroscopy on the light, oxygen, or voltage (LOV) domains of the blue light receptors aureochrome and phototropin revealed a suppression of the response of specific secondary structure elements, indicating that the intracellular environment affects LOV photoreceptor mechanisms in general. Moreover, in-cell fluorescence spectroscopy disclosed that the intracellular environment slows down the recovery of the light-induced flavin adduct. Segment-resolved ICIRD spectroscopy on basic-region leucine zipper (bZIP)-LOV of aureochrome 1a from the diatom <i>Phaeodactylum tricornutum</i> indicated a signal progression from the LOV sensor to the bZIP effector independent of unfolding of the connecting A'α-helix, an observation that stood in contrast to <i>in vitro</i> results. This deviation was recapitulated <i>in vitro</i> by emulating the intracellular environment through the addition of the crowding agent BSA, but not by sucrose polymers. We conclude that ICIRD spectroscopy is a noninvasive, label-free approach for assessing conformational changes in receptors in living cells at ambient conditions. As demonstrated, these near-native responses may deviate from the mechanisms established under <i>in vitro</i> conditions."	0
"32234482"	"Cortical Neural Stem Cell Lineage Progression Is Regulated by Extrinsic Signaling Molecule Sonic Hedgehog.Neural stem cells (NSCs) in the prenatal neocortex progressively generate different subtypes of glutamatergic projection neurons. Following that, NSCs have a major switch in their progenitor properties and produce γ-aminobutyric acid (GABAergic) interneurons for the olfactory bulb (OB), cortical oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes. Herein, we provide evidence for the molecular mechanism that underlies this switch in the state of neocortical NSCs. We show that, at around E16.5, mouse neocortical NSCs start to generate GSX2-expressing (GSX2<sup>+</sup>) intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs). In vivo lineage-tracing study revealed that GSX2<sup>+</sup> IPC population gives rise not only to OB interneurons but also to cortical oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, suggesting that they are a tri-potential population. We demonstrated that Sonic hedgehog signaling is both necessary and sufficient for the generation of GSX2<sup>+</sup> IPCs by reducing GLI3R protein levels. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we identify the transcriptional profile of GSX2<sup>+</sup> IPCs and the process of the lineage switch of cortical NSCs."	0
"32375030"	"Secreted Phospholipase PLA2G2D Contributes to Metabolic Health by Mobilizing ω3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids in WAT.Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) confer health benefits by preventing inflammation and obesity and by increasing thermogenesis in brown and beige adipocytes. As well as being supplied exogenously as nutrients, PUFAs are largely stored in membrane glycerophospholipids and released by phospholipase A<sub>2</sub>s (PLA<sub>2</sub>s). However, the molecular identity of the PLA<sub>2</sub> subtype(s) that supplies endogenous PUFAs for metabolic homeostasis remains unclear. Here we show that PLA2G2D, a secreted PLA<sub>2</sub> isoform, is constitutively expressed in M2-type macrophages in white adipose tissue (WAT) and shows a reciprocal correlation with obesity. Studies using global and macrophage-specific Pla2g2d-deficient mice reveal that PLA2G2D increases energy expenditure and thermogenesis by facilitating adipocyte browning, thereby ameliorating diet-induced obesity, insulin resistance, and WAT inflammation. Mechanistically, PLA2G2D constitutively supplies a pool of PUFAs, ω3 in particular, in WAT. Thus, our present findings underscore the contribution of the macrophage-driven PLA2G2D-ω3 PUFA axis to metabolic health."	0
"32115408"	"Cerebral organoid and mouse models reveal a RAB39b-PI3K-mTOR pathway-dependent dysregulation of cortical development leading to macrocephaly/autism phenotypes.Dysregulation of early neurodevelopment is implicated in macrocephaly/autism disorders. However, the mechanism underlying this dysregulation, particularly in human cells, remains poorly understood. Mutations in the small GTPase gene <i>RAB39b</i> are associated with X-linked macrocephaly, autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and intellectual disability. The in vivo roles of RAB39b in the brain remain unknown. We generated <i>Rab39b</i> knockout (KO) mice and found that they exhibited cortical neurogenesis impairment, macrocephaly, and hallmark ASD behaviors, which resembled patient phenotypes. We also produced mutant human cerebral organoids that were substantially enlarged due to the overproliferation and impaired differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs), which resemble neurodevelopmental deficits in KO mice. Mechanistic studies reveal that RAB39b interacts with PI3K components and its deletion promotes PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling in NPCs of mouse cortex and cerebral organoids. The mTOR activity is robustly enhanced in mutant outer radial glia cells (oRGs), a subtype of NPCs barely detectable in rodents but abundant in human brains. Inhibition of AKT signaling rescued enlarged organoid sizes and NPC overproliferation caused by <i>RAB39b</i> mutations. Therefore, <i>RAB39b</i> mutation promotes PI3K-AKT-mTOR activity and alters cortical neurogenesis, leading to macrocephaly and autistic-like behaviors. Our studies provide new insights into neurodevelopmental dysregulation and common pathways associated with ASD across species."	1
"31940485"	"Intersectin-Mediated Clearance of SNARE Complexes Is Required for Fast Neurotransmission.The rapid replenishment of release-ready synaptic vesicles (SVs) at a limiting number of presynaptic release sites is required to sustain high-frequency neurotransmission in CNS neurons. Failure to clear release sites from previously exocytosed material has been shown to impair vesicle replenishment and, therefore, fast neurotransmission. The identity of this material and the machinery that removes it from release sites have remained enigmatic. Here we show that the endocytic scaffold protein intersectin 1 clears release sites by direct SH3 domain-mediated association with a non-canonical proline-rich segment of synaptobrevin assembled into the SNARE complex for neuroexocytosis. Acute structure-based or sustained genetic interference with SNARE complex recognition by intersectin 1 causes a rapid stimulation frequency-dependent depression of neurotransmission due to impaired replenishment of release-ready SVs. These findings identify a key molecular mechanism that underlies exo-endocytic coupling during fast neurotransmitter release at central synapses."	0
"30853401"	"Spatiotemporal Control of ULK1 Activation by NDP52 and TBK1 during Selective Autophagy.Selective autophagy recycles damaged organelles and clears intracellular pathogens to prevent their aberrant accumulation. How ULK1 kinase is targeted and activated during selective autophagic events remains to be elucidated. In this study, we used chemically inducible dimerization (CID) assays in tandem with CRISPR KO lines to systematically analyze the molecular basis of selective autophagosome biogenesis. We demonstrate that ectopic placement of NDP52 on mitochondria or peroxisomes is sufficient to initiate selective autophagy by focally localizing and activating the ULK1 complex. The capability of NDP52 to induce mitophagy is dependent on its interaction with the FIP200/ULK1 complex, which is facilitated by TBK1. Ectopically tethering ULK1 to cargo bypasses the requirement for autophagy receptors and TBK1. Focal activation of ULK1 occurs independently of AMPK and mTOR. Our findings provide a parsimonious model of selective autophagy, which highlights the coordination of ULK1 complex localization by autophagy receptors and TBK1 as principal drivers of targeted autophagosome biogenesis."	1
"32004470"	"Molecular Basis for Hormone Recognition and Activation of Corticotropin-Releasing Factor Receptors.Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and the three related peptides urocortins 1-3 (UCN1-UCN3) are endocrine hormones that control the stress responses by activating CRF1R and CRF2R, two members of class B G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Here, we present two cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of UCN1-bound CRF1R and CRF2R with the stimulatory G protein. In both structures, UCN1 adopts a single straight helix with its N terminus dipped into the receptor transmembrane bundle. Although the peptide-binding residues in CRF1R and CRF2R are different from other members of class B GPCRs, the residues involved in receptor activation and G protein coupling are conserved. In addition, both structures reveal bound cholesterol molecules to the receptor transmembrane helices. Our structures define the basis of ligand-binding specificity in the CRF receptor-hormone system, establish a common mechanism of class B GPCR activation and G protein coupling, and provide a paradigm for studying membrane protein-lipid interactions for class B GPCRs."	0
"31982308"	"Cancer Cells Employ Nuclear Caspase-8 to Overcome the p53-Dependent G2/M Checkpoint through Cleavage of USP28.Cytosolic caspase-8 is a mediator of death receptor signaling. While caspase-8 expression is lost in some tumors, it is increased in others, indicating a conditional pro-survival function of caspase-8 in cancer. Here, we show that tumor cells employ DNA-damage-induced nuclear caspase-8 to override the p53-dependent G2/M cell-cycle checkpoint. Caspase-8 is upregulated and localized to the nucleus in multiple human cancers, correlating with treatment resistance and poor clinical outcome. Depletion of caspase-8 causes G2/M arrest, stabilization of p53, and induction of p53-dependent intrinsic apoptosis in tumor cells. In the nucleus, caspase-8 cleaves and inactivates the ubiquitin-specific peptidase 28 (USP28), preventing USP28 from de-ubiquitinating and stabilizing wild-type p53. This results in de facto p53 protein loss, switching cell fate from apoptosis toward mitosis. In summary, our work identifies a non-canonical role of caspase-8 exploited by cancer cells to override the p53-dependent G2/M cell-cycle checkpoint."	1
"32023470"	"OTUB1 Is a Key Regulator of RIG-I-Dependent Immune Signaling and Is Targeted for Proteasomal Degradation by Influenza A NS1.Deubiquitylases (DUBs) regulate critical signaling pathways at the intersection of host immunity and viral pathogenesis. Although RIG-I activation is heavily dependent on ubiquitylation, systematic analyses of DUBs that regulate this pathway have not been performed. Using a ubiquitin C-terminal electrophile, we profile DUBs that function during influenza A virus (IAV) infection and isolate OTUB1 as a key regulator of RIG-I-dependent antiviral responses. Upon infection, OTUB1 relocalizes from the nucleus to mitochondrial membranes together with RIG-I, viral PB2, and NS1. Its expression depends on competing effects of interferon stimulation and IAV-triggered degradation. OTUB1 activates RIG-I via a dual mechanism of K48 polyubiquitin hydrolysis and formation of an E2-repressive complex with UBCH5c. We reconstitute this mechanism in a cell-free system comprising [<sup>35</sup>S]IRF3, purified RIG-I, mitochondrial membranes, and cytosol expressing OTUB1 variants. A range of IAV NS1 proteins trigger proteasomal degradation of OTUB1, antagonizing the RIG-I signaling cascade and antiviral responses."	1
"32160544"	"Glioblastoma Cell Resistance to EGFR and MET Inhibition Can Be Overcome via Blockade of FGFR-SPRY2 Bypass Signaling.SPRY2 is a purported tumor suppressor in certain cancers that promotes tumor growth and resistance to receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors in glioblastoma. Here, we identify a SPRY2-dependent bypass signaling mechanism in glioblastoma that drives resistance to EGFR and MET inhibition. In glioblastoma cells treated with EGFR and MET inhibitors, SPRY2 expression is initially suppressed but eventually rebounds due to NF-κB pathway activation, resultant autocrine FGFR activation, and reactivation of ERK, which controls SPRY2 transcription. In cells where FGFR autocrine signaling does not occur and ERK does not reactivate, or in which ERK reactivates but SPRY2 cannot be expressed, EGFR and MET inhibitors are more effective at promoting death. The same mechanism also drives acquired resistance to EGFR and MET inhibition. Furthermore, tumor xenografts expressing an ERK-dependent bioluminescent reporter engineered for these studies reveal that this bypass resistance mechanism plays out in vivo but can be overcome through simultaneous FGFR inhibition."	1
"32160530"	"Intestine-to-Germline Transmission of Epigenetic Information Intergenerationally Ensures Systemic Stress Resistance in C. elegans.Changes in epigenetic states affect organismal homeostasis, including stress resistance. However, the mechanisms coordinating epigenetic states and systemic stress resistance remain largely unknown. Here, we identify the intestine-to-germline communication of epigenetic states, which intergenerationally enhances stress resistance in C. elegans. The alterations in epigenetic states by deficiency of the histone H3K4me3 modifier ASH-2 in the intestine or germline increase organismal stress resistance, which is abrogated by knockdown of the H3K4 demethylase RBR-2. Remarkably, the increase in stress resistance induced by ASH-2 deficiency in the intestine is abrogated by RBR-2 knockdown in the germline, suggesting the intestine-to-germline transmission of epigenetic information. This communication from intestine to germline in the parental generation increases stress resistance in the next generation. Moreover, the intertissue communication is mediated partly by transcriptional regulation of F08F1.3. These results reveal that intertissue communication of epigenetic information provides mechanisms for intergenerational regulation of systemic stress resistance."	0
"32460025"	"The Drosophila Ortholog of Mammalian Transcription Factor Sox9 Regulates Intestinal Homeostasis and Regeneration at an Appropriate Level.Balanced stem cell self-renewal and differentiation is essential for maintaining tissue homeostasis, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we identified the transcription factor SRY-related HMG-box (Sox) 100B, which is orthologous to mammalian Sox8/9/10, as a common target and central mediator of the EGFR/Ras and JAK/STAT signaling pathways that coordinates intestinal stem cell (ISC) proliferation and differentiation during both normal epithelial homeostasis and stress-induced intestinal repair in Drosophila. The two stress-responsive pathways directly regulate Sox100B transcription via two separate enhancers. Interestingly, an appropriate level of Sox100B is critical for its function, as its depletion inhibits ISC proliferation via cell cycle arrest, while its overexpression also inhibits ISC proliferation by directly suppressing EGFR expression and additionally promotes ISC differentiation by activating a differentiation-promoting regulatory circuitry composed of Sox100B, Sox21a, and Pdm1. Thus, our study reveals a Sox family transcription factor that functions as a stress-responsive signaling nexus that ultimately controls tissue homeostasis and regeneration."	1
"31054975"	"Crosstalk between RNA Pol II C-Terminal Domain Acetylation and Phosphorylation via RPRD Proteins.Post-translational modifications of the RNA polymerase II C-terminal domain (CTD) coordinate the transcription cycle. Crosstalk between different modifications is poorly understood. Here, we show how acetylation of lysine residues at position 7 of characteristic heptad repeats (K7ac)-only found in higher eukaryotes-regulates phosphorylation of serines at position 5 (S5p), a conserved mark of polymerases initiating transcription. We identified the regulator of pre-mRNA-domain-containing (RPRD) proteins as reader proteins of K7ac. K7ac enhanced CTD peptide binding to the CTD-interacting domain (CID) of RPRD1A and RPRD1B proteins in isothermal calorimetry and molecular modeling experiments. Deacetylase inhibitors increased K7ac- and decreased S5-phosphorylated polymerases, consistent with acetylation-dependent S5 dephosphorylation by an RPRD-associated S5 phosphatase. Consistent with this model, RPRD1B knockdown increased S5p but enhanced K7ac, indicating that RPRD proteins recruit K7 deacetylases, including HDAC1. We also report autoregulatory crosstalk between K7ac and S5p via RPRD proteins and their interactions with acetyl- and phospho-eraser proteins."	0
"32553158"	"Disseminated Melanoma Cells Transdifferentiate into Endothelial Cells in Intravascular Niches at Metastatic Sites.Tumor cell plasticity, including transdifferentiation, is thought to be a key driver of therapy failure, tumor dormancy, and metastatic dissemination. Although melanoma cells have been shown to adopt various phenotypic features in vitro, direct in vivo evidence of metastatic cell plasticity remains sparse. Here, we combine lineage tracing in a spontaneous metastatic mouse model of melanoma, advanced imaging, and single-cell RNA sequencing approaches to search for pathophysiologically relevant melanoma cellular states. We identify melanoma cells in intravascular niches of various metastatic organs. These cells are quiescent, are negative for characteristic melanoma markers, and acquire endothelial cell features. We replicate the endothelial transdifferentiation (EndT) finding in another mouse model and provide evidence of EndT in BRAF<sup>V600E</sup>-metastatic biopsies from human lung, brain, and small intestine, thus highlighting the clinical relevance of these findings. The tumor-vasculature pattern described herein may contribute to melanoma dormancy within metastatic organs and represent a putative target for therapies."	0
"30772175"	"PINK1 Inhibits Local Protein Synthesis to Limit Transmission of Deleterious Mitochondrial DNA Mutations.We have previously proposed that selective inheritance, the limited transmission of damaging mtDNA mutations from mother to offspring, is based on replication competition in Drosophila melanogaster. This model, which stems from our observation that wild-type mitochondria propagate much more vigorously in the fly ovary than mitochondria carrying fitness-impairing mutations, implies that germ cells recognize the fitness of individual mitochondria and selectively boost the propagation of healthy ones. Here, we demonstrate that the protein kinase PINK1 preferentially accumulates on mitochondria enriched for a deleterious mtDNA mutation. PINK1 phosphorylates Larp to inhibit protein synthesis on the mitochondrial outer membrane. Impaired local translation on defective mitochondria in turn limits the replication of their mtDNA and hence the transmission of deleterious mutations to the offspring. Our work confirms that selective inheritance occurs at the organelle level during Drosophila oogenesis and provides molecular entry points to test this model in other systems."	0
"30824372"	"P-TEFb Activation by RBM7 Shapes a Pro-survival Transcriptional Response to Genotoxic Stress.DNA damage response (DDR) involves dramatic transcriptional alterations, the mechanisms of which remain ill defined. Here, we show that following genotoxic stress, the RNA-binding motif protein 7 (RBM7) stimulates RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription and promotes cell viability by activating the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) via its release from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (7SK snRNP). This is mediated by activation of p38<sup>MAPK</sup>, which triggers enhanced binding of RBM7 with core subunits of 7SK snRNP. In turn, P-TEFb relocates to chromatin to induce transcription of short units, including key DDR genes and multiple classes of non-coding RNAs. Critically, interfering with the axis of RBM7 and P-TEFb provokes cellular hypersensitivity to DNA-damage-inducing agents due to activation of apoptosis. Our work uncovers the importance of stress-dependent stimulation of Pol II pause release, which enables a pro-survival transcriptional response that is crucial for cell fate upon genotoxic insult."	1
"32209476"	"OXR1A, a Coactivator of PRMT5 Regulating Histone Arginine Methylation.Oxidation resistance gene 1 (OXR1) protects cells against oxidative stress. We find that male mice with brain-specific isoform A knockout (Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup>) develop fatty liver. RNA sequencing of male Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> liver indicates decreased growth hormone (GH) signaling, which is known to affect liver metabolism. Indeed, Gh expression is reduced in male mice Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary gland and in rat Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary adenoma cell-line GH3. Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> male mice show reduced fasting-blood GH levels. Pull-down and proximity ligation assays reveal that OXR1A is associated with arginine methyl transferase PRMT5. OXR1A-depleted GH3 cells show reduced symmetrical dimethylation of histone H3 arginine 2 (H3R2me2s), a product of PRMT5 catalyzed methylation, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) of H3R2me2s shows reduced Gh promoter enrichment. Finally, we demonstrate with purified proteins that OXR1A stimulates PRMT5/MEP50-catalyzed H3R2me2s. Our data suggest that OXR1A is a coactivator of PRMT5, regulating histone arginine methylation and thereby GH production within the pituitary gland."	1
"31914402"	"TRIM32/USP11 Balances ARID1A Stability and the Oncogenic/Tumor-Suppressive Status of Squamous Cell Carcinoma.Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is an aggressive epithelial malignancy, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying SCC development are elusive. ARID1A is frequently mutated in various cancer types, but both mutation rates and expression levels of ARID1A are ubiquitously low in SCCs. Here, we reveal that excessive protein degradation mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) contributes to the loss of ARID1A expression in SCC. We identify that the E3 ligase TRIM32 and the deubiquitinase USP11 play key roles in controlling ARID1A stability. TRIM32 depletion inhibits SCC cell proliferation, metastasis, and chemoresistance by stabilizing ARID1A, while USP11 depletion promotes SCC development by promoting ARID1A degradation. We show that syndecan-2 (SDC2) is the downstream target of both ARID1A and USP11 and that SDC2 depletion abolishes the oncogenic function of ARID1A loss. In summary, our data reveal UPS-mediated protein degradation as a mechanism underlying ARID1A loss and propose an important role for the TRIM32/USP11-ARID1A-SDC2 axis in SCC."	1
"32579928"	"Fibroblast-Derived STC-1 Modulates Tumor-Associated Macrophages and Lung Adenocarcinoma Development.The tumor microenvironment (TME) consists of different cell types, including tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and tumor-associated fibroblasts (TAFs). How these cells interact and contribute to lung carcinogenesis remains elusive. Using <sup>G12D</sup>KRAS- and <sup>V600E</sup>BRAF-driven mouse lung models, we identify the pleiotropic glycoprotein stanniocalcin-1 (STC1) as a regulator of TAM-TAF interactions. STC1 is secreted by TAFs and suppresses TAM differentiation, at least in part, by sequestering the binding of GRP94, an autocrine macrophage-differentiation-inducing factor, to its cognate scavenger receptors. The accumulation of mature TAMs in the Stc1-deficient lung leads to enhanced secretion of TGF-β1 and, thus, TAF accumulation in the TME. Consistent with the mouse data, in human lung adenocarcinoma, STC1 expression is restricted to myofibroblasts, and a significant increase of naive macrophages is detected in STC1-high compared with STC1-low cases. This work increases our understanding of lung adenocarcinoma development and suggests new approaches for therapeutic targeting of the TME."	1
"32049013"	"A FLCN-TFE3 Feedback Loop Prevents Excessive Glycogenesis and Phagocyte Activation by Regulating Lysosome Activity.The tumor suppressor folliculin (FLCN) suppresses nuclear translocation of TFE3, a master transcription factor for lysosomal biogenesis, via regulation of amino-acid-sensing Rag GTPases. However, the importance of this lysosomal regulation in mammalian physiology remains unclear. Following hematopoietic-lineage-specific Flcn deletion in mice, we found expansion of vacuolated phagocytes that accumulate glycogen in their cytoplasm, phenotypes reminiscent of lysosomal storage disorder (LSD). We report that TFE3 acts in a feedback loop to transcriptionally activate FLCN expression, and FLCN loss disrupts this loop, augmenting TFE3 activity. Tfe3 deletion in Flcn knockout mice reduces the number of phagocytes and ameliorates LSD-like phenotypes. We further reveal that TFE3 stimulates glycogenesis by promoting the expression of glycogenesis genes, including Gys1 and Gyg, upon loss of Flcn. Taken together, we propose that the FLCN-TFE3 feedback loop acts as a rheostat to control lysosome activity and prevents excessive glycogenesis and LSD-like phagocyte activation."	1
"31676232"	"PRIMPOL-Mediated Adaptive Response Suppresses Replication Fork Reversal in BRCA-Deficient Cells.Acute treatment with replication-stalling chemotherapeutics causes reversal of replication forks. BRCA proteins protect reversed forks from nucleolytic degradation, and their loss leads to chemosensitivity. Here, we show that fork degradation is no longer detectable in BRCA1-deficient cancer cells exposed to multiple cisplatin doses, mimicking a clinical treatment regimen. This effect depends on increased expression and chromatin loading of PRIMPOL and is regulated by ATR activity. Electron microscopy and single-molecule DNA fiber analyses reveal that PRIMPOL rescues fork degradation by reinitiating DNA synthesis past DNA lesions. PRIMPOL repriming leads to accumulation of ssDNA gaps while suppressing fork reversal. We propose that cells adapt to repeated cisplatin doses by activating PRIMPOL repriming under conditions that would otherwise promote pathological reversed fork degradation. This effect is generalizable to other conditions of impaired fork reversal (e.g., SMARCAL1 loss or PARP inhibition) and suggests a new strategy to modulate cisplatin chemosensitivity by targeting the PRIMPOL pathway."	1
"32035036"	"Dopamine Uses the DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A Signaling Axis to Block the TRAF6-Mediated NF-κB Pathway and Suppress Systemic Inflammation.The functional relevance and mechanistic basis of the effects of the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) on inflammation remain unclear. Here we reveal that DA inhibited TLR2-induced NF-κB activation and inflammation via the DRD5 receptor in macrophages. We found that the DRD5 receptor, via the EFD and IYX(X)I/L motifs in its CT and IC3 loop, respectively, can directly recruit TRAF6 and its negative regulator ARRB2 to form a multi-protein complex also containing downstream signaling proteins, such as TAK1, IKKs, and PP2A, that impairs TRAF6-mediated activation of NF-κB and expression of pro-inflammatory genes. Furthermore, the DA-DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A signaling axis can prevent S. aureus-induced inflammation and protect mice against S. aureus-induced sepsis and meningitis after DA treatment. Collectively, these findings provide the first demonstration of DA-DRD5 signaling acting to control inflammation and a detailed delineation of the underlying mechanism and identify the DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A axis as a potential target for future therapy of inflammation-associated diseases such as meningitis and sepsis."	1
"30879903"	"MDM2 Integrates Cellular Respiration and Apoptotic Signaling through NDUFS1 and the Mitochondrial Network.Signaling diversity and subsequent complexity in higher eukaryotes is partially explained by one gene encoding a polypeptide with multiple biochemical functions in different cellular contexts. For example, mouse double minute 2 (MDM2) is functionally characterized as both an oncogene and a tumor suppressor, yet this dual classification confounds the cell biology and clinical literatures. Identified via complementary biochemical, organellar, and cellular approaches, we report that MDM2 negatively regulates NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase 75 kDa Fe-S protein 1 (NDUFS1), leading to decreased mitochondrial respiration, marked oxidative stress, and commitment to the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis. MDM2 directly binds and sequesters NDUFS1, preventing its mitochondrial localization and ultimately causing complex I and supercomplex destabilization and inefficiency of oxidative phosphorylation. The MDM2 amino-terminal region is sufficient to bind NDUFS1, alter supercomplex assembly, and induce apoptosis. Finally, this pathway is independent of p53, and several mitochondrial phenotypes are observed in Drosophila and murine models expressing transgenic Mdm2."	1
"32075754"	"Sen1 Is Recruited to Replication Forks via Ctf4 and Mrc1 and Promotes Genome Stability.DNA replication and RNA transcription compete for the same substrate during S phase. Cells have evolved several mechanisms to minimize such conflicts. Here, we identify the mechanism by which the transcription termination helicase Sen1 associates with replisomes. We show that the N terminus of Sen1 is both sufficient and necessary for replisome association and that it binds to the replisome via the components Ctf4 and Mrc1. We generated a separation of function mutant, sen1-3, which abolishes replisome binding without affecting transcription termination. We observe that the sen1-3 mutants show increased genome instability and recombination levels. Moreover, sen1-3 is synthetically defective with mutations in genes involved in RNA metabolism and the S phase checkpoint. RNH1 overexpression suppresses defects in the former, but not the latter. These findings illustrate how Sen1 plays a key function at replication forks during DNA replication to promote fork progression and chromosome stability."	1
"31901447"	"Lipid Droplet-Derived Monounsaturated Fatty Acids Traffic via PLIN5 to Allosterically Activate SIRT1.Lipid droplets (LDs) provide a reservoir for triacylglycerol storage and are a central hub for fatty acid trafficking and signaling in cells. Lipolysis promotes mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism via a SIRT1/PGC-1α/PPARα-dependent pathway through an unknown mechanism. Herein, we identify that monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) allosterically activate SIRT1 toward select peptide-substrates such as PGC-1α. MUFAs enhance PGC-1α/PPARα signaling and promote oxidative metabolism in cells and animal models in a SIRT1-dependent manner. Moreover, we characterize the LD protein perilipin 5 (PLIN5), which is known to enhance mitochondrial biogenesis and function, to be a fatty-acid-binding protein that preferentially binds LD-derived monounsaturated fatty acids and traffics them to the nucleus following cAMP/PKA-mediated lipolytic stimulation. Thus, these studies identify the first-known endogenous allosteric modulators of SIRT1 and characterize a LD-nuclear signaling axis that underlies the known metabolic benefits of MUFAs and PLIN5."	1
"32518161"	"Loss of the RNA-binding protein Rbm15 disrupts liver maturation in zebrafish.Liver organogenesis begins with hepatic precursors in the foregut endoderm, followed by hepatoblast specification, differentiation, outgrowth, and maturation for the formation of functional hepatocytes. Although several signaling pathways and critical factors that regulate liver specification, differentiation, and proliferation have been identified, little is known about how liver maturation is regulated. Here, we used a screen for mutations affecting liver development in zebrafish and identified a <i>cq96</i> mutant that exhibits a specific defect in liver maturation. Results from positional cloning revealed that <i>cq96</i> encodes an RNA-binding protein, Rbm15, which is an evolutionarily conserved Spen family protein and known to play a crucial role in RNA m6A modification, nuclear export, and alternative splicing. However, a function of Rbm15 in embryonic liver development has not been reported. We found that <i>Rbm15</i> is specifically expressed in the liver after its differentiation. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated loss of <i>rbm15</i> repressed hepatic maturation, but did not affect hepatoblast specification, differentiation, and hepatocyte proliferation and apoptosis. Additional experiments disclosed that the mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) pathway is highly activated in <i>rbm15</i>-deficient hepatocytes. Moreover, rapamycin treatment partially restored normal hepatic gene expression as well as the nuclear location of the transcription factor Hnf4a. Taken together, these results reveal an unexpected role of Rbm15 in liver maturation."	0
"32402281"	"Relocation of Collapsed Forks to the Nuclear Pore Complex Depends on Sumoylation of DNA Repair Proteins and Permits Rad51 Association.Expanded CAG repeats form stem-loop secondary structures that lead to fork stalling and collapse. Previous work has shown that these collapsed forks relocalize to nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) in late S phase in a manner dependent on replication, the nucleoporin Nup84, and the Slx5 protein, which prevents repeat fragility and instability. Here, we show that binding of the Smc5/6 complex to the collapsed fork triggers Mms21-dependent sumoylation of fork-associated DNA repair proteins, and that RPA, Rad52, and Rad59 are the key sumoylation targets that mediate relocation. The SUMO interacting motifs of Slx5 target collapsed forks to the NPC. Notably, Rad51 foci only co-localize with the repeat after it is anchored to the nuclear periphery and Rad51 exclusion from the early collapsed fork is dependent on RPA sumoylation. This pathway may provide a mechanism to constrain recombination at stalled or collapsed forks until it is required for fork restart."	0
"32675285"	"Intracellular autoactivation of TMPRSS11A, an airway epithelial transmembrane serine protease.Type II transmembrane serine proteases (TTSPs) are a group of enzymes participating in diverse biological processes. Some members of the TTSP family are implicated in viral infection. TMPRSS11A is a TTSP expressed on the surface of airway epithelial cells, which has been shown to cleave and activate spike proteins of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronaviruses (CoVs). In this study, we examined the mechanism underlying the activation cleavage of TMPRSS11A that converts the one-chain zymogen to a two-chain enzyme. By expression in human embryonic kidney 293, esophageal EC9706, and lung epithelial A549 and 16HBE cells, Western blotting, and site-directed mutagenesis, we found that the activation cleavage of human TMPRSS11A was mediated by autocatalysis. Moreover, we found that TMPRSS11A activation cleavage occurred before the protein reached the cell surface, as indicated by studies with trypsin digestion to remove cell surface proteins, treatment with cell organelle-disturbing agents to block intracellular protein trafficking, and analysis of a soluble form of TMPRSS11A without the transmembrane domain. We also showed that TMPRSS11A was able to cleave the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. These results reveal an intracellular autocleavage mechanism in TMPRSS11A zymogen activation, which differs from the extracellular zymogen activation reported in other TTSPs. These findings provide new insights into the diverse mechanisms in regulating TTSP activation."	0
"31896691"	"Corrigendum: DNA polymerase θ accomplishes translesion synthesis opposite 1,N<sup>6</sup>-ethenodeoxyadenosine with a remarkably high fidelity in human cells."	0
"32209485"	"BMP Signaling Gradient Scaling in the Zebrafish Pectoral Fin.Secreted growth factors can act as morphogens that form spatial concentration gradients in developing organs, thereby controlling growth and patterning. For some morphogens, adaptation of the gradients to tissue size allows morphological patterns to remain proportioned as the organs grow. In the zebrafish pectoral fin, we found that BMP signaling forms a two-dimensional gradient. The length of the gradient scales with tissue length and its amplitude increases with fin size according to a power-law. Gradient scaling and amplitude power-laws are signatures of growth control by time derivatives of morphogenetic signaling: cell division correlates with the fold change over time of the cellular signaling levels. We show that Smoc1 regulates BMP gradient scaling and growth in the fin. Smoc1 scales the gradient by means of a feedback loop: Smoc1 is a BMP agonist and BMP signaling represses Smoc1 expression. Our work uncovers a layer of morphogen regulation during vertebrate appendage development."	0
"32268084"	"Genome-wide Screens Implicate Loss of Cullin Ring Ligase 3 in Persistent Proliferation and Genome Instability in TP53-Deficient Cells.TP53 deficiency is the most common alteration in cancer; however, this alone is typically insufficient to drive tumorigenesis. To identify genes promoting tumorigenesis in combination with TP53 deficiency, we perform genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 knockout screens coupled with proliferation and transformation assays in isogenic cell lines. Loss of several known tumor suppressors enhances cellular proliferation and transformation. Loss of neddylation pathway genes promotes uncontrolled proliferation exclusively in TP53-deficient cells. Combined loss of CUL3 and TP53 activates an oncogenic transcriptional program governed by the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), AP-1, and transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) pathways. This program maintains persistent cellular proliferation, induces partial epithelial to mesenchymal transition, and increases DNA damage, genomic instability, and chromosomal rearrangements. Our findings reveal CUL3 loss as a key event stimulating persistent proliferation in TP53-deficient cells. These findings may be clinically relevant, since TP53-CUL3-deficient cells are highly sensitive to ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) inhibition, exposing a vulnerability that could be exploited for cancer treatment."	0
"31027879"	"Coordinated Conformational Processing of the Tumor Suppressor Protein p53 by the Hsp70 and Hsp90 Chaperone Machineries.p53, the guardian of the genome, requires chaperoning by Hsp70 and Hsp90. However, how the two chaperone machineries affect p53 conformation and regulate its function remains elusive. We found that Hsp70, together with Hsp40, unfolds p53 in an ATP-dependent reaction. This unfolded state of p53 is susceptible to aggregation after release induced by the nucleotide exchange factor Bag-1. However, when Hsp90 and the adaptor protein Hop are present, p53 is transferred from Hsp70 to Hsp90, allowing restoration of the native state upon ATP hydrolysis. Our results suggest that the p53 conformation is constantly remodeled by the two major chaperone machineries. This connects p53 activity to stress, and the levels of free molecular chaperones are important factors regulating p53 activity. Together, our findings reveal an intricate interplay and cooperation of Hsp70 and Hsp90 in regulating the conformation of a client."	1
"32032531"	"Imprinted Maternally Expressed microRNAs Antagonize Paternally Driven Gene Programs in Neurons.Imprinted genes with parental-biased allelic expression are frequently co-regulated and enriched in common biological pathways. Here, we functionally characterize a large cluster of microRNAs (miRNAs) expressed from the maternally inherited allele (""maternally expressed"") to explore the molecular and cellular consequences of imprinted miRNA activity. Using an induced neuron (iN) culture system, we show that maternally expressed miRNAs from the miR-379/410 cluster direct the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) to transcriptional and developmental regulators, including paternally expressed transcripts like Plagl1. Maternal deletion of this imprinted miRNA cluster resulted in increased protein levels of several targets and upregulation of a broader transcriptional program regulating synaptic transmission and neuronal function. A subset of the transcriptional changes resulting from miR-379/410 deletion can be attributed to de-repression of Plagl1. These data suggest maternally expressed miRNAs antagonize paternally driven gene programs in neurons."	0
"32587090"	"The WD40-repeat protein WDR-48 promotes the stability of the deubiquitinating enzyme USP-46 by inhibiting its ubiquitination and degradation.Ubiquitination is a reversible post-translational modification that has emerged as a critical regulator of synapse development and function. However, the mechanisms that regulate the deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) responsible for the removal of ubiquitin from target proteins are poorly understood. We have previously shown that the DUB ubiquitin-specific protease 46 (USP-46) removes ubiquitin from the glutamate receptor GLR-1 and regulates its trafficking and degradation in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> We found that the WD40-repeat proteins WDR-20 and WDR-48 bind and stimulate the catalytic activity of USP-46. Here, we identified another mechanism by which WDR-48 regulates USP-46. We found that increased expression of WDR-48, but not WDR-20, promotes USP-46 abundance in mammalian cells in culture and in <i>C. elegans</i> neurons <i>in vivo</i> Inhibition of the proteasome increased USP-46 abundance, and this effect was nonadditive with increased WDR-48 expression. We found that USP-46 is ubiquitinated and that expression of WDR-48 reduces the levels of ubiquitin-USP-46 conjugates and increases the <i>t</i><sub>1/2</sub> of USP-46. A point-mutated WDR-48 variant that disrupts binding to USP-46 was unable to promote USP-46 abundance <i>in vivo</i> Finally, siRNA-mediated knockdown of <i>wdr48</i> destabilizes USP46 in mammalian cells. Together, these results support a model in which WDR-48 binds and stabilizes USP-46 protein levels by preventing the ubiquitination and degradation of USP-46 in the proteasome. Given that a large number of USPs interact with WDR proteins, we propose that stabilization of DUBs by their interacting WDR proteins may be a conserved and widely used mechanism that controls DUB availability and function."	1
"31896687"	"Top1 and Top2 promote replication fork arrest at a programmed pause site.Programmed fork pausing is a complex process allowing cells to arrest replication forks at specific loci in a polar manner. Studies in budding yeast and other model organisms indicate that such replication fork barriers do not act as roadblocks passively impeding fork progression but rather elicit complex interactions between fork and barrier components. In this issue of <i>Genes & Development</i>, Shyian and colleagues (pp. 87-98) show that in budding yeast, the fork protection complex Tof1-Csm3 interacts physically with DNA topoisomerase I (Top1) at replication forks through the C-terminal domain of Tof1. Fork pausing at the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) replication fork barrier (RFB) is impaired in the absence of Top1 or in a <i>tof1</i> mutant that does not bind Top1, but the function of Top1 can be partially compensated for by Top2. Together, these data indicate that topoisomerases play an unexpected role in the regulation of programmed fork pausing in <i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i>."	0
"31375263"	"The N-Degron Pathway Mediates ER-phagy.The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is susceptible to wear-and-tear and proteotoxic stress, necessitating its turnover. Here, we show that the N-degron pathway mediates ER-phagy. This autophagic degradation initiates when the transmembrane E3 ligase TRIM13 (also known as RFP2) is ubiquitinated via the lysine 63 (K63) linkage. K63-ubiquitinated TRIM13 recruits p62 (also known as sequestosome-1), whose complex undergoes oligomerization. The oligomerization is induced when the ZZ domain of p62 is bound by the N-terminal arginine (Nt-Arg) of arginylated substrates. Upon activation by the Nt-Arg, oligomerized TRIM13-p62 complexes are separated along with the ER compartments and targeted to autophagosomes, leading to lysosomal degradation. When protein aggregates accumulate within the ER lumen, degradation-resistant autophagic cargoes are co-segregated by ER membranes for lysosomal degradation. We developed synthetic ligands to the p62 ZZ domain that enhance ER-phagy for ER protein quality control and alleviate ER stresses. Our results elucidate the biochemical mechanisms and pharmaceutical means that regulate ER homeostasis."	0
"32698014"	"Tissue-Specific Regulation of the Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway by PAGE4 Inhibition of Tankyrase.Spatiotemporal control of Wnt/β-catenin signaling is critical for organism development and homeostasis. The poly-(ADP)-ribose polymerase Tankyrase (TNKS1) promotes Wnt/β-catenin signaling through PARylation-mediated degradation of AXIN1, a component of the β-catenin destruction complex. Although Wnt/β-catenin is a niche-restricted signaling program, tissue-specific factors that regulate TNKS1 are not known. Here, we report prostate-associated gene 4 (PAGE4) as a tissue-specific TNKS1 inhibitor that robustly represses canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling in human cells, zebrafish, and mice. Structural and biochemical studies reveal that PAGE4 acts as an optimal substrate decoy that potently hijacks substrate binding sites on TNKS1 to prevent AXIN1 PARylation and degradation. Consistently, transgenic expression of PAGE4 in mice phenocopies TNKS1 knockout. Physiologically, PAGE4 is selectively expressed in stromal prostate fibroblasts and functions to establish a proper Wnt/β-catenin signaling niche through suppression of autocrine signaling. Our findings reveal a non-canonical mechanism for TNKS1 inhibition that functions to establish tissue-specific control of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway."	1
"31995749"	"Regulatory T Cells Condition Lymphatic Endothelia for Enhanced Transendothelial Migration.Regulatory T cells (Tregs) express high levels of cell surface lymphotoxin alpha beta (LTα1β2) to activate the LT beta receptor (LTβR) on the lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs), modulating LEC adhesion molecules, intercellular junctions, and chemokines. We demonstrate a role for Tregs through this pathway to condition the permissiveness of lymphatic endothelia for transendothelial migration (TEM), thus gating leukocyte traffic. Human Tregs share the same property with murine Tregs. Activation of TLR2 on Tregs during inflammation specifically augments LTα1β2-LTβR signaling, which further enhances the permissiveness of LECs to facilitate TEM. The conditioning of endothelia may promote the resolution of inflammation by directing leukocytes out of tissues to lymphatic vessels and draining lymph nodes (dLNs). Thus, Tregs interact with lymphatic endothelia under homeostasis and inflammation and dictate endothelial permissiveness and gating mechanisms for subsequent leukocyte migration through endothelial barriers."	0
"31812350"	"Targeting UBE4A Revives Viperin Protein in Epithelium to Enhance Host Antiviral Defense.Mutation and prevalence of pathogenic viruses prompt the development of broad-spectrum antiviral strategies. Viperin is a potent antiviral protein that inhibits a broad range of viruses. Unexpectedly, we found that Viperin protein production in epithelium is defective in response to both viruses and interferons (IFNs). We further revealed that viruses and IFNs stimulate expression of the acetyltransferase HAT1, which induces Lys197-acetylation on Viperin. Viperin acetylation in turn recruits UBE4A that stimulates K6-linked polyubiquitination at Lys206 of Viperin, leading to Viperin protein degradation. Importantly, UBE4A deficiency restores Viperin protein production in epithelium. We then designed interfering peptides (IPs) to inhibit UBE4A binding with Viperin. We found that VIP-IP3 rescues Viperin protein production in epithelium and therefore enhances cellular antiviral activity. VIP-IP3 renders mice more resistant to viral infection. These findings could provide strategies for both enhancing host broad-spectrum antiviral response and improving the efficacy of IFN-based antiviral therapy."	1
"32780990"	"An In Vitro Assembly System Identifies Roles for RNA Nucleation and ATP in Yeast Stress Granule Formation.Stress granules (SGs) are condensates of mRNPs that form in response to stress. SGs arise by multivalent protein-protein, protein-RNA, and RNA-RNA interactions. However, the role of RNA-RNA interactions in SG assembly remains understudied. Here, we describe a yeast SG reconstitution system that faithfully recapitulates SG assembly in response to trigger RNAs. SGs assembled by stem-loop RNA triggers are ATP-sensitive, regulated by helicase/chaperone activity, and exhibit the hallmarks of maturation observed for SG proteins that phase-separate in vitro. Additionally, the fraction of total RNA that phase-separates in vitro is sufficient to trigger SG formation. However, condensation of NFT1 mRNA, an enriched transcript in this population, can only assemble an incomplete SG. These results suggest that networks of distinct transcripts are required to form a canonical SG and provide a platform for dissecting the interplay between the transcriptome and ATP-dependent remodeling in SG formation."	0
"32075759"	"STAT Signaling Modifies Ascl1 Chromatin Binding and Limits Neural Regeneration from Muller Glia in Adult Mouse Retina.Müller glia (MG) serve as sources for retinal regeneration in non-mammalian vertebrates. We find that this process can be induced in mouse MG, after injury, by transgenic expression of the proneural transcription factor Ascl1 and the HDAC inhibitor TSA. However, new neurons are generated only from a subset of MG. Identifying factors that limit Ascl1-mediated MG reprogramming could make this process more efficient. In this study, we test whether injury-induced STAT activation hampers the ability of Ascl1 to reprogram MG into retinal neurons. Single-cell RNA-seq shows that progenitor-like cells derived from Ascl1-expressing MG have a higher level of STAT signaling than do those cells that become neurons. Ascl1-ChIPseq and ATAC-seq show that STAT potentially directs Ascl1 to developmentally inappropriate targets. Using a STAT inhibitor, in combination with our previously described reprogramming paradigm, we found a large increase in the ability of MG to generate neurons."	0
"32023474"	"Distinct Transcriptional Responses across Tissue-Resident Macrophages to Short-Term and Long-Term Metabolic Challenge.The innate immune system safeguards the organism from both pathogenic and environmental stressors. Also, physiologic levels of nutrients affect organismal and intra-cellular metabolism and challenge the immune system. In the long term, over-nutrition leads to low-grade systemic inflammation. Here, we investigate tissue-resident components of the innate immune system (macrophages) and their response to short- and long-term nutritional challenges. We analyze the transcriptomes of six tissue-resident macrophage populations upon acute feeding and identify adipose tissue macrophages and the IL-1 pathway as early sensors of metabolic changes. Furthermore, by comparing functional responses between macrophage subtypes, we propose a regulatory, anti-inflammatory role of heat shock proteins of the HSP70 family in response to long- and short-term metabolic challenges. Our data provide a resource for assessing the impact of nutrition and over-nutrition on the spectrum of macrophages across tissues with a potential for identification of systemic responses."	0
"32579917"	"Local miRNA-Dependent Translational Control of GABA<sub>A</sub>R Synthesis during Inhibitory Long-Term Potentiation.Molecular mechanisms underlying plasticity at brain inhibitory synapses remain poorly characterized. Increased postsynaptic clustering of GABA<sub>A</sub> receptors (GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs) rapidly strengthens inhibition during inhibitory long-term potentiation (iLTP). However, it is unclear how synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>R clustering is maintained to sustain iLTP. Here, we identify a role for miR376c in regulating the translation of mRNAs encoding the synaptic α1 and γ2 GABA<sub>A</sub>R subunits, GABRA1 and GABRG2, respectively. Following iLTP induction, transcriptional repression of miR376c is induced through a calcineurin-NFAT-HDAC signaling pathway and promotes increased translation and clustering of synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs. This pathway is essential for the long-term expression of iLTP and is blocked by miR376c overexpression, specifically impairing inhibitory synaptic strength. Finally, we show that local de novo synthesis of synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs occurs exclusively in dendrites and in a miR376c-dependent manner following iLTP. Together, this work describes a local post-transcriptional mechanism that regulates inhibitory synaptic plasticity via miRNA control of dendritic protein synthesis."	1
"32209481"	"c-Src Promotes Tumorigenesis and Tumor Progression by Activating PFKFB3.Reprogramming of glucose metabolism is a key event in tumorigenesis and progression. Here, we show that active c-Src stimulates glycolysis by phosphorylating (Tyr194) and activating PFKFB3, a key enzyme that boosts glycolysis by producing fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and activating PFK1. Increased glycolysis intermediates replenish non-oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) and serine pathway for biosynthesis of cancer cells. PFKFB3 knockout (KO) cells and their counterpart reconstituted with PFKFB3-Y194F show comparably impaired abilities for proliferation, migration, and xenograft formation. Furthermore, PFKFB3-Y194F knockin mice show impaired glycolysis and, mating of these mice with APC<sup>min/+</sup> mice attenuates spontaneous colon cancer formation in APC<sup>min/+</sup> mice. In summary, we identify a specific mechanism by which c-Src mediates glucose metabolism to meet cancer cells' requirements for maximal biosynthesis and proliferation. The PFKFB3-Tyr194 phosphorylation level highly correlates with c-Src activity in clinical tumor samples, indicating its potential as an evaluation for tumor prognosis."	1
"32561545"	"Human RTEL1 associates with Poldip3 to facilitate responses to replication stress and R-loop resolution.RTEL1 helicase is a component of DNA repair and telomere maintenance machineries. While RTEL1's role in DNA replication is emerging, how RTEL1 preserves genomic stability during replication remains elusive. Here we used a range of proteomic, biochemical, cell, and molecular biology and gene editing approaches to provide further insights into potential role(s) of RTEL1 in DNA replication and genome integrity maintenance. Our results from complementary human cell culture models established that RTEL1 and the Polδ subunit Poldip3 form a complex and are/function mutually dependent in chromatin binding after replication stress. Loss of RTEL1 and Poldip3 leads to marked R-loop accumulation that is confined to sites of active replication, enhances endogenous replication stress, and fuels ensuing genomic instability. The impact of depleting RTEL1 and Poldip3 is epistatic, consistent with our proposed concept of these two proteins operating in a shared pathway involved in DNA replication control under stress conditions. Overall, our data highlight a previously unsuspected role of RTEL1 and Poldip3 in R-loop suppression at genomic regions where transcription and replication intersect, with implications for human diseases including cancer."	1
"31831627"	"Induction of AP-1 by YAP/TAZ contributes to cell proliferation and organ growth.Yes-associated protein (YAP) and its homolog transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) are key effectors of the Hippo pathway to control cell growth and organ size, of which dysregulation yields to tumorigenesis or hypertrophy. Upon activation, YAP/TAZ translocate into the nucleus and bind to TEAD transcription factors to promote transcriptional programs for proliferation or cell specification. Immediate early genes, represented by AP-1 complex, are rapidly induced and control later-phase transcriptional program to play key roles in tumorigenesis and organ maintenance. Here, we report that YAP/TAZ directly promote <i>FOS</i> transcription that in turn contributes to the biological function of YAP/TAZ. YAP/TAZ bind to the promoter region of <i>FOS</i> to stimulate its transcription. Deletion of YAP/TAZ blocks the induction of immediate early genes in response to mitogenic stimuli. <i>FOS</i> induction contributes to expression of YAP/TAZ downstream target genes. Genetic deletion or chemical inhibition of AP-1 suppresses growth of YAP-driven cancer cells, such as <i>Lats1/2</i>-deficient cancer cells as well as Gα<sub>q/11</sub> mutated uveal melanoma. Furthermore, AP-1 inhibition almost completely abrogates the hepatomegaly induced by YAP overexpression. Our findings reveal a feed-forward interplay between immediate early transcription of AP-1 and Hippo pathway function."	1
"32698006"	"Diversification of DNA-Binding Specificity by Permissive and Specificity-Switching Mutations in the ParB/Noc Protein Family.Specific interactions between proteins and DNA are essential to many biological processes. Yet, it remains unclear how the diversification in DNA-binding specificity was brought about, and the mutational paths that led to changes in specificity are unknown. Using a pair of evolutionarily related DNA-binding proteins, each with a different DNA preference (ParB [Partitioning Protein B] and Noc [Nucleoid Occlusion Factor], which both play roles in bacterial chromosome maintenance), we show that specificity is encoded by a set of four residues at the protein-DNA interface. Combining X-ray crystallography and deep mutational scanning of the interface, we suggest that permissive mutations must be introduced before specificity-switching mutations to reprogram specificity and that mutational paths to new specificity do not necessarily involve dual-specificity intermediates. Overall, our results provide insight into the possible evolutionary history of ParB and Noc and, in a broader context, might be useful for understanding the evolution of other classes of DNA-binding proteins."	0
"32610123"	"T Cell-Intrinsic IRF5 Regulates T Cell Signaling, Migration, and Differentiation and Promotes Intestinal Inflammation.IRF5 polymorphisms are associated with multiple immune-mediated diseases, including ulcerative colitis. IRF5 contributions are attributed to its role in myeloid lineages. How T cell-intrinsic IRF5 contributes to inflammatory outcomes is not well understood. We identify a previously undefined key role for T cell-intrinsic IRF5. In mice, IRF5 in CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells promotes Th1- and Th17-associated cytokines and decreases Th2-associated cytokines. IRF5 is required for the optimal assembly of the TCR-initiated signaling complex and downstream signaling at early times, and at later times binds to promoters of Th1- and Th17-associated transcription factors and cytokines. IRF5 also regulates chemokine receptor-initiated signaling and, in turn, T cell migration. In vivo, IRF5 in CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells enhances the severity of experimental colitis. Importantly, human CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells from high IRF5-expressing disease-risk genetic carriers demonstrate increased chemokine-induced migration and Th1/Th17 cytokines and reduced Th2-associated and anti-inflammatory cytokines. These data demonstrate key roles for T cell-intrinsic IRF5 in inflammatory outcomes."	0
"32424274"	"A pliable ERα cistrome evades therapy."	0
"31919191"	"The microtubule regulator <i>ringer</i> functions downstream from the RNA repair/splicing pathway to promote axon regeneration.Promoting axon regeneration in the central and peripheral nervous system is of clinical importance in neural injury and neurodegenerative diseases. Both pro- and antiregeneration factors are being identified. We previously reported that the Rtca mediated RNA repair/splicing pathway restricts axon regeneration by inhibiting the nonconventional splicing of <i>Xbp1</i> mRNA under cellular stress. However, the downstream effectors remain unknown. Here, through transcriptome profiling, we show that the tubulin polymerization-promoting protein (TPPP) ringmaker/ringer is dramatically increased in Rtca-deficient <i>Drosophila</i> sensory neurons, which is dependent on Xbp1. Ringer is expressed in sensory neurons before and after injury, and is cell-autonomously required for axon regeneration. While loss of ringer abolishes the regeneration enhancement in Rtca mutants, its overexpression is sufficient to promote regeneration both in the peripheral and central nervous system. Ringer maintains microtubule stability/dynamics with the microtubule-associated protein futsch/MAP1B, which is also required for axon regeneration. Furthermore, ringer lies downstream from and is negatively regulated by the microtubule-associated deacetylase HDAC6, which functions as a regeneration inhibitor. Taken together, our findings suggest that ringer acts as a hub for microtubule regulators that relays cellular status information, such as cellular stress, to the integrity of microtubules in order to instruct neuroregeneration."	0
"31420216"	"Estrogen-Related Hormones Induce Apoptosis by Stabilizing Schlafen-12 Protein Turnover.The mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis is controlled by the ratio of anti- and pro-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins. The molecular events underlying how a given physiological stimulus changes this ratio to trigger apoptosis remains unclear. We report here that human 17-β-estradiol (E2) and its related steroid hormones induce apoptosis by binding directly to phosphodiesterase 3A, which in turn recruits and stabilizes an otherwise fast-turnover protein Schlafen 12 (SLFN12). The elevated SLFN12 binds to ribosomes to exclude the recruitment of signal recognition particles (SRPs), thereby blocking the continuous protein translation occurring on the endoplasmic reticulum of E2-treated cells. These proteins include Bcl-2 and Mcl-1, whose ensuing decrease triggers apoptosis. The SLFN12 protein and an apoptosis activation marker were co-localized in syncytiotrophoblast of human placentas, where levels of estrogen-related hormones are high, and dynamic cell turnover by apoptosis is critical for successful implantation and placenta development."	1
"32187553"	"FGFR1 Oncogenic Activation Reveals an Alternative Cell of Origin of SCLC in Rb1/p53 Mice.Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) is frequently amplified in human small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), but its contribution to SCLC and other lung tumors has remained elusive. Here, we assess the tumorigenic capacity of constitutive-active FGFR1 (FGFR1<sup>K656E</sup>) with concomitant RB and P53 depletion in mouse lung. Our results reveal a context-dependent effect of FGFR1<sup>K656E</sup>: it impairs SCLC development from CGRP<sup>POS</sup> neuroendocrine (NE) cells, which are considered the major cell of origin of SCLC, whereas it promotes SCLC and low-grade NE bronchial lesions from tracheobronchial-basal cells. Moreover, FGFR1<sup>K656E</sup> induces lung adenocarcinoma (LADC) from most lung cell compartments. However, its expression is not sustained in LADC originating from CGRP<sup>POS</sup> cells. Therefore, cell context and tumor stage should be taken into account when considering FGFR1 inhibition as a therapeutic option."	0
"32115406"	"Critical roles of phosphoinositides and NF2 in Hippo pathway regulation.The Hippo pathway is a master regulator of tissue homeostasis and organ size. NF2 is a well-established tumor suppressor, and loss of NF2 severely compromises Hippo pathway activity. However, the precise mechanism of how NF2 mediates upstream signals to regulate the Hippo pathway is not clear. Here we report that, in mammalian cells, NF2's lipid-binding ability is critical for its function in activating the Hippo pathway in response to osmotic stress. Mechanistically, osmotic stress induces PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> plasma membrane enrichment by activating the PIP5K family, allowing for NF2 plasma membrane recruitment and subsequent downstream Hippo pathway activation. An NF2 mutant deficient in lipid binding is unable to activate the Hippo pathway in response to osmotic stress, as measured by LATS and YAP phosphorylation. Our findings identify the PIP5K family as novel regulators upstream of Hippo signaling, and uncover the importance of phosphoinositide dynamics, specifically PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>, in Hippo pathway regulation."	1
"32814043"	"Proteolytic Restriction of Chordin Range Underlies BMP Gradient Formation.A fundamental question in developmental biology is how morphogens, such as bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), form precise signaling gradients to impart positional and functional identity to the cells of the early embryo. We combine rigorous mutant analyses with quantitative immunofluorescence to determine that the proteases Bmp1a and Tolloid spatially restrict the BMP antagonist Chordin in dorsoventral (DV) axial patterning of the early zebrafish gastrula. We show that maternally deposited Bmp1a plays an unexpected and non-redundant role in establishing the BMP signaling gradient, while the Bmp1a/Tolloid antagonist Sizzled is surprisingly dispensable. Combining computational modeling and in vivo analyses with an immobile Chordin construct, we demonstrate that long-range Chordin diffusion is not necessary for BMP gradient formation and DV patterning. Our data do not support a counter-gradient of Chordin and instead favor a Chordin sink, established by Bmp1a and Tolloid, as the primary mechanism that drives BMP gradient formation."	1
"30642763"	"The RNA-Binding Protein PUM2 Impairs Mitochondrial Dynamics and Mitophagy During Aging.Little information is available about how post-transcriptional mechanisms regulate the aging process. Here, we show that the RNA-binding protein Pumilio2 (PUM2), which is a translation repressor, is induced upon aging and acts as a negative regulator of lifespan and mitochondrial homeostasis. Multi-omics and cross-species analyses of PUM2 function show that it inhibits the translation of the mRNA encoding for the mitochondrial fission factor (Mff), thereby impairing mitochondrial fission and mitophagy. This mechanism is conserved in C. elegans by the PUM2 ortholog PUF-8. puf-8 knock-down in old nematodes and Pum2 CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout in the muscles of elderly mice enhances mitochondrial fission and mitophagy in both models, hence improving mitochondrial quality control and tissue homeostasis. Our data reveal how a PUM2-mediated layer of post-transcriptional regulation links altered Mff translation to mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy, thereby mediating age-related mitochondrial dysfunctions."	1
"30981630"	"Structural Basis of Dot1L Stimulation by Histone H2B Lysine 120 Ubiquitination.The essential histone H3 lysine 79 methyltransferase Dot1L regulates transcription and genomic stability and is deregulated in leukemia. The activity of Dot1L is stimulated by mono-ubiquitination of histone H2B on lysine 120 (H2BK120Ub); however, the detailed mechanism is not understood. We report cryo-EM structures of human Dot1L bound to (1) H2BK120Ub and (2) unmodified nucleosome substrates at 3.5 Å and 4.9 Å, respectively. Comparison of both structures, complemented with biochemical experiments, provides critical insights into the mechanism of Dot1L stimulation by H2BK120Ub. Both structures show Dot1L binding to the same extended surface of the histone octamer. In yeast, this surface is used by silencing proteins involved in heterochromatin formation, explaining the mechanism of their competition with Dot1. These results provide a strong foundation for understanding conserved crosstalk between histone modifications found at actively transcribed genes and offer a general model of how ubiquitin might regulate the activity of chromatin enzymes."	0
"32111741"	"The Parkinson's disease-associated kinase LRRK2 regulates genes required for cell adhesion, polarization, and chemotaxis in activated murine macrophages.Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (<i>LRRK2</i>) encodes a complex protein that includes kinase and GTPase domains. Genome-wide association studies have identified dominant <i>LRRK2</i> alleles that predispose their carriers to late-onset idiotypic Parkinson's disease (PD) and also to autoimmune disorders such as Crohn's disease. Considerable evidence indicates that PD initiation and progression involve activation of innate immune functions in microglia, which are brain-resident macrophages. Here we asked whether LRRK2 modifies inflammatory signaling and how this modification might contribute to PD and Crohn's disease. We used RNA-Seq-based high-resolution transcriptomics to compare gene expression in activated primary macrophages derived from WT and <i>Lrrk2</i> knockout mice. Remarkably, expression of a single gene, Rap guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (<i>Rapgef3</i>), was strongly up-regulated in the absence of LRRK2 and down-regulated in its presence. We observed similar regulation of <i>Rapgef3</i> expression in cells treated with a highly specific inhibitor of LRRK2 protein kinase activity. <i>Rapgef3</i> encodes an exchange protein, activated by cAMP 1 (EPAC-1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor that activates the small GTPase Rap-1. Rap-1 mediates cell adhesion, polarization, and directional motility, and our results indicate that LRRK2 modulates chemotaxis of microglia and macrophages. Dominant PD-associated <i>LRRK2</i> alleles may suppress EPAC-1 activity, further restricting motility and preventing efficient migration of microglia to sites of neuronal damage. Functional analysis <i>in vivo</i> in a subclinical infection model also indicated that Lrrk2 subtly modifies the inflammatory response. These results indicate that LRRK2 modulates the expression of genes involved in murine immune cell chemotaxis."	1
"32697984"	"RSK2 Maintains Adult Estrogen Homeostasis by Inhibiting ERK1/2-Mediated Degradation of Estrogen Receptor Alpha.In response to estrogens, estrogen receptor alpha (ERα), a critical regulator of homeostasis, is degraded through the 26S proteasome. However, despite the continued presence of estrogen before menopause, ERα protein levels are maintained. We discovered that ERK1/2-RSK2 activity oscillates during the estrous cycle. In response to high estrogen levels, ERK1/2 is activated and phosphorylates ERα to drive ERα degradation and estrogen-responsive gene expression. Reduction of estrogen levels results in ERK1/2 deactivation. RSK2 maintains redox homeostasis, which prevents sustained ERK1/2 activation. In juveniles, ERK1/2-RSK2 activity is not required. Mammary gland regeneration demonstrates that ERK1/2-RSK2 regulation of ERα is intrinsic to the epithelium. Reduced RSK2 and enrichment in an estrogen-regulated gene signature occur in individuals taking oral contraceptives. RSK2 loss enhances DNA damage, which may account for the elevated breast cancer risk with the use of exogenous estrogens. These findings implicate RSK2 as a critical component for the preservation of estrogen homeostasis."	1
"32521264"	"PRMT1-p53 Pathway Controls Epicardial EMT and Invasion.Epicardial cells are cardiac progenitors that give rise to the majority of cardiac fibroblasts, coronary smooth muscle cells, and pericytes during development. An integral phase of epicardial fate transition is epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) that confers motility. We uncover an essential role for the protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) in epicardial invasion and differentiation. Using scRNA-seq, we show that epicardial-specific deletion of Prmt1 reduced matrix and ribosomal gene expression in epicardial-derived cell lineages. PRMT1 regulates splicing of Mdm4, which is a key controller of p53 stability. Loss of PRMT1 leads to accumulation of p53 that enhances Slug degradation and blocks EMT. During heart development, the PRMT1-p53 pathway is required for epicardial invasion and formation of epicardial-derived lineages: cardiac fibroblasts, coronary smooth muscle cells, and pericytes. Consequently, this pathway modulates ventricular morphogenesis and coronary vessel formation. Altogether, our study reveals molecular mechanisms involving the PRMT1-p53 pathway and establish its roles in heart development."	1
"31606272"	"AUTACs: Cargo-Specific Degraders Using Selective Autophagy.Protein silencing represents an essential tool in biomedical research. Targeted protein degradation (TPD) strategies exemplified by PROTACs are rapidly emerging as modalities in drug discovery. However, the scope of current TPD techniques is limited because many intracellular materials are not substrates of proteasomal clearance. Here, we described a novel targeted-clearance strategy (autophagy-targeting chimera [AUTAC]) that contains a degradation tag (guanine derivatives) and a warhead to provide target specificity. As expected from the substrate scope of autophagy, AUTAC degraded fragmented mitochondria as well as proteins. Mitochondria-targeted AUTAC accelerated both the removal of dysfunctional fragmented mitochondria and the biogenesis of functionally normal mitochondria in patient-derived fibroblast cells. Cytoprotective effects against acute mitochondrial injuries were also seen. Canonical autophagy is viewed as a nonselective bulk decomposition system, and none of the available autophagy-inducing agents exhibit useful cargo selectivity. With its target specificity, AUTAC provides a new modality for research on autophagy-based drugs."	0
"32231312"	"Chromatin replication and epigenetic cell memory.Propagation of the chromatin landscape across cell divisions is central to epigenetic cell memory. Mechanistic analysis of the interplay between DNA replication, the cell cycle, and the epigenome has provided insights into replication-coupled chromatin assembly and post-replicative chromatin maintenance. These breakthroughs are critical for defining how proliferation impacts the epigenome during cell identity changes in development and disease. Here we review these findings in the broader context of epigenetic inheritance across mitotic cell division."	0
"32049023"	"SENP3 Suppresses Osteoclastogenesis by De-conjugating SUMO2/3 from IRF8 in Bone Marrow-Derived Monocytes.Bone metabolism depends on the balance between osteoclast-driven bone resorption and osteoblast-mediated bone formation. Diseases like osteoporosis are characterized by increased bone destruction due to partially enhanced osteoclastogenesis. Here, we report that the post-translational SUMO modification is critical for regulating osteoclastogenesis. The expression of the SUMO-specific protease SENP3 is downregulated in osteoclast precursors during osteoclast differentiation. Mice with SENP3 deficiency in bone marrow-derived monocytes (BMDMs) exhibit more severe bone loss due to over-activation of osteoclasts after ovariectomy. Deleting SENP3 in BMDMs promotes osteoclast differentiation. Mechanistically, loss of SENP3 increases interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) SUMO3 modification at the K310 amino acid site, which upregulates expression of the nuclear factor of activated T cell c1 (NFATc1) and osteoclastogenesis. In summary, IRF8 de-SUMO modification mediated by SENP3 suppresses osteoclast differentiation and suggests strategies to treat bone loss diseases."	1
"32268093"	"TLR9 Sensing of Self-DNA Controls Cell-Mediated Immunity to Listeria Infection via Rapid Conversion of Conventional CD4<sup>+</sup> T Cells to T<sub>reg</sub>.CD4<sup>+</sup> T lymphocytes are crucial for controlling a range of innate and adaptive immune effectors. For CD8<sup>+</sup> cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses, CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells can function as helpers (T<sub>H</sub>) to amplify magnitude and functionality or as regulatory cells (T<sub>reg</sub>) capable of profound inhibition. It is unclear what determines differentiation to these phenotypes and whether pathogens provoke alternate programs. We find that, depending on the size of initial dose, Listeria infection drives CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells to act as T<sub>H</sub> or induces rapid polyclonal conversion to immunosuppressive T<sub>reg</sub>. Conversion to T<sub>reg</sub> depends on the TLR9 and IL-12 pathways elicited by CD8α<sup>+</sup> dendritic cell (DC) sensing of danger-associated neutrophil self-DNA. These findings resolve long-standing questions regarding the conditional requirement for T<sub>H</sub> amongst pathogens and reveal a remarkable degree of plasticity in the function of CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells, which can be quickly converted to T<sub>reg</sub>in vivo by infection-mediated immune modulation."	0
"32521254"	"Sex-Specific Disruption of Distinct mPFC Inhibitory Neurons in Spared-Nerve Injury Model of Neuropathic Pain.The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) modulates a range of behaviors, including responses to noxious stimuli. While various pain modalities alter mPFC function, our understanding of changes to specific cell types underlying pain-induced mPFC dysfunction remains incomplete. Proper activity of cortical GABAergic interneurons is essential for normal circuit function. We find that nerve injury increases excitability of layer 5 parvalbumin-expressing neurons in the prelimbic (PL) region of the mPFC from male, but not female, mice. Conversely, nerve injury dampens excitability in somatostatin-expressing neurons in layer 2/3 of the PL region; however, effects are differential between males and females. Nerve injury slightly increases the frequency of spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic currents (sEPSCs) in layer 5 parvalbumin-expressing neurons in males but reduces frequency of sEPSCs in layer 2/3 somatostatin-expressing neurons in females. Our findings provide key insight into how nerve injury drives maladaptive and sex-specific alterations to GABAergic circuits in cortical regions implicated in chronic pain."	0
"31968247"	"Constitutive Interferon Attenuates RIPK1/3-Mediated Cytokine Translation.Receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1) and 3 (RIPK3) are well known for their capacity to drive necroptosis via mixed-lineage kinase-like domain (MLKL). Recently, RIPK1/3 kinase activity has been shown to drive inflammation via activation of MAPK signaling. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying this kinase-dependent cytokine production remain poorly understood. In the present study, we establish that the kinase activity of RIPK1/3 regulates cytokine translation in mouse and human macrophages. Furthermore, we show that this inflammatory response is downregulated by type I interferon (IFN) signaling, independent of type I IFN-promoted cell death. Specifically, low-level constitutive IFN signaling attenuates RIPK-driven activation of cap-dependent translation initiation pathway components AKT, mTORC1, 4E-BP and eIF4E, while promoting RIPK-dependent cell death. Altogether, these data characterize constitutive IFN signaling as a regulator of RIPK-dependent inflammation and establish cap-dependent translation as a crucial checkpoint in the regulation of cytokine production."	1
"32367045"	"Bridging naïve and primed pluripotency."	0
"32354837"	"4E-T-bound mRNAs are stored in a silenced and deadenylated form.Human 4E-T is an eIF4E-binding protein (4E-BP) present in processing (P)-bodies that represses translation and regulates decay of mRNAs destabilized by AU-rich elements and microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we show that upon mRNA binding 4E-T represses translation and promotes deadenylation via the recruitment of the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. The interaction with CCR4-NOT is mediated by previously uncharacterized sites in the middle region of 4E-T. Importantly, mRNA decapping and decay are inhibited by 4E-T and the deadenylated target is stored in a repressed form. Inhibition of mRNA decapping requires the interaction of 4E-T with the cap-binding proteins eIF4E/4EHP. We further show that regulation of decapping by 4E-T participates in mRNA repression by the miRNA effector protein TNRC6B and that 4E-T overexpression interferes with tristetraprolin (TTP)- and NOT1-mediated mRNA decay. Thus, we postulate that 4E-T modulates 5'-to-3' decay by swapping the fate of a deadenylated mRNA from complete degradation to storage. Our results provide insight into the mechanism of mRNA storage that controls localized translation and mRNA stability in P-bodies."	1
"32649883"	"Stress Induces Dynamic, Cytotoxicity-Antagonizing TDP-43 Nuclear Bodies via Paraspeckle LncRNA NEAT1-Mediated Liquid-Liquid Phase Separation.Despite the prominent role of TDP-43 in neurodegeneration, its physiological and pathological functions are not fully understood. Here, we report an unexpected role of TDP-43 in the formation of dynamic, reversible, liquid droplet-like nuclear bodies (NBs) in response to stress. Formation of NBs alleviates TDP-43-mediated cytotoxicity in mammalian cells and fly neurons. Super-resolution microscopy reveals distinct functions of the two RRMs in TDP-43 NB formation. TDP-43 NBs are partially colocalized with nuclear paraspeckles, whose scaffolding lncRNA NEAT1 is dramatically upregulated in stressed neurons. Moreover, increase of NEAT1 promotes TDP-43 liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) in vitro. Finally, we discover that the ALS-associated mutation D169G impairs the NEAT1-mediated TDP-43 LLPS and NB assembly, causing excessive cytoplasmic translocation of TDP-43 to form stress granules, which become phosphorylated TDP-43 cytoplasmic foci upon prolonged stress. Together, our findings suggest a stress-mitigating role and mechanism of TDP-43 NBs, whose dysfunction may be involved in ALS pathogenesis."	0
"32130890"	"Regulated Proteolysis of MutSγ Controls Meiotic Crossing Over.Crossover recombination is essential for accurate chromosome segregation during meiosis. The MutSγ complex, Msh4-Msh5, facilitates crossing over by binding and stabilizing nascent recombination intermediates. We show that these activities are governed by regulated proteolysis. MutSγ is initially inactive for crossing over due to an N-terminal degron on Msh4 that renders it unstable by directly targeting proteasomal degradation. Activation of MutSγ requires the Dbf4-dependent kinase Cdc7 (DDK), which directly phosphorylates and thereby neutralizes the Msh4 degron. Genetic requirements for Msh4 phosphorylation indicate that DDK targets MutSγ only after it has bound to nascent joint molecules (JMs) in the context of synapsing chromosomes. Overexpression studies confirm that the steady-state level of Msh4, not phosphorylation per se, is the critical determinant for crossing over. At the DNA level, Msh4 phosphorylation enables the formation and crossover-biased resolution of double-Holliday Junction intermediates. Our study establishes regulated protein degradation as a fundamental mechanism underlying meiotic crossing over."	1
"32554465"	"Two <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> calponin-related proteins have overlapping functions that maintain cytoskeletal integrity and are essential for reproduction.Multicellular organisms have multiple genes encoding calponins and calponin-related proteins, some of which are known to regulate actin cytoskeletal dynamics and contractility. However, the functional similarities and differences among these proteins are largely unknown. In the nematode <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i>, UNC-87 is a calponin-related protein with seven calponin-like (CLIK) motifs and is required for maintenance of contractile apparatuses in muscle cells. Here, we report that CLIK-1, another calponin-related protein that also contains seven CLIK motifs, functionally overlaps with UNC-87 in maintaining actin cytoskeletal integrity <i>in vivo</i> and has both common and different actin-regulatory activities <i>in vitro</i> We found that CLIK-1 is predominantly expressed in the body wall muscle and somatic gonad in which UNC-87 is also expressed. <i>unc-87</i> mutation caused cytoskeletal defects in the body wall muscle and somatic gonad, whereas <i>clik-1</i> depletion alone caused no detectable phenotypes. However, simultaneous <i>clik-1</i> and <i>unc-87</i> depletion caused sterility because of ovulation failure by severely affecting the contractile actin networks in the myoepithelial sheath of the somatic gonad. <i>In vitro</i>, UNC-87 bundled actin filaments, whereas CLIK-1 bound to actin filaments without bundling them and antagonized UNC-87-mediated filament bundling. We noticed that UNC-87 and CLIK-1 share common functions that inhibit cofilin binding and allow tropomyosin binding to actin filaments, suggesting that both proteins stabilize actin filaments. In conclusion, partially redundant functions of UNC-87 and CLIK-1 in ovulation are likely mediated by their common actin-regulatory activities, but their distinct actin-bundling activities suggest that they also have different biological functions."	0
"32023483"	"Genome-wide Screening Identifies SFMBT1 as an Oncogenic Driver in Cancer with VHL Loss.von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) is a critical tumor suppressor in clear cell renal cell carcinomas (ccRCCs). It is important to identify additional therapeutic targets in ccRCC downstream of VHL loss besides hypoxia-inducible factor 2α (HIF2α). By performing a genome-wide screen, we identified Scm-like with four malignant brain tumor domains 1 (SFMBT1) as a candidate pVHL target. SFMBT1 was considered to be a transcriptional repressor but its role in cancer remains unclear. ccRCC patients with VHL loss-of-function mutations displayed elevated SFMBT1 protein levels. SFMBT1 hydroxylation on Proline residue 651 by EglN1 mediated its ubiquitination and degradation governed by pVHL. Depletion of SFMBT1 abolished ccRCC cell proliferation in vitro and inhibited orthotopic tumor growth in vivo. Integrated analyses of ChIP-seq, RNA-seq, and patient prognosis identified sphingosine kinase 1 (SPHK1) as a key SFMBT1 target gene contributing to its oncogenic phenotype. Therefore, the pVHL-SFMBT1-SPHK1 axis serves as a potential therapeutic avenue for ccRCC."	1
"32615089"	"Disome and Trisome Profiling Reveal Genome-wide Targets of Ribosome Quality Control.The ribosome-associated protein quality control (RQC) system that resolves stalled translation events is activated when ribosomes collide and form disome, trisome, or higher-order complexes. However, it is unclear whether this system distinguishes collision complexes formed on defective mRNAs from those with functional roles on endogenous transcripts. Here, we performed disome and trisome footprint profiling in yeast and found collisions were enriched on diverse sequence motifs known to slow translation. When 60S recycling was inhibited, disomes accumulated at stop codons and could move into the 3' UTR to reinitiate translation. The ubiquitin ligase and RQC factor Hel2/ZNF598 generally recognized collisions but did not induce degradation of endogenous transcripts. However, loss of Hel2 triggered the integrated stress response, via phosphorylation of eIF2α, thus linking these pathways. Our results suggest that Hel2 has a role in sensing ribosome collisions on endogenous mRNAs, and such events may be important for cellular homeostasis."	0
"32726633"	"NMDAR-Dependent Emergence of Behavioral Representation in Primary Visual Cortex.Although neocortical sensory areas are generally thought to faithfully represent external stimuli, cortical networks exhibit considerable functional plasticity, allowing them to modify their output to reflect ongoing behavioral demands. We apply longitudinal 2-photon imaging of activity in the primary visual cortex (V1) of mice learning a conditioned eyeblink task to investigate the dynamic representations of task-relevant information. We find that, although all V1 neurons robustly and stably encode visual input, pyramidal cells and parvalbumin-expressing interneurons exhibit experience-dependent emergence of accurate behavioral representations during learning. The functional plasticity driving performance-predictive activity requires cell-autonomous expression of NMDA-type glutamate receptors. Our findings demonstrate that accurate encoding of behavioral output is not inherent to V1 but develops during learning to support visual task performance."	0
"32023461"	"Wnt3a Stimulation Promotes Primary Ciliogenesis through β-Catenin Phosphorylation-Induced Reorganization of Centriolar Satellites.Primary cilium is an antenna-like microtubule-based cellular sensing structure. Abnormal regulation of the dynamic assembly and disassembly cycle of primary cilia is closely related to ciliopathy and cancer. The Wnt signaling pathway plays a major role in embryonic development and tissue homeostasis, and defects in Wnt signaling are associated with a variety of human diseases, including cancer. In this study, we provide direct evidence of Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis, which includes a continuous pathway showing that the stimulation of Wnt3a, a canonical Wnt ligand, promotes the generation of β-catenin p-S47 epitope by CK1δ, and these events lead to the reorganization of centriolar satellites resulting in primary ciliogenesis. We have also confirmed the application of our findings in MCF-7/ADR cells, a multidrug-resistant tumor cell model. Thus, our data provide a Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis pathway and may provide a clue on how to overcome multidrug resistance in cancer treatment."	1
"32402284"	"A Non-structural 1 Protein G53D Substitution Attenuates a Clinically Tested Live Dengue Vaccine.The molecular basis of dengue virus (DENV) attenuation remains ambiguous and hampers a targeted approach to derive safe but nonetheless immunogenic live vaccine candidates. Here, we take advantage of DENV serotype 2 PDK53 vaccine strain, which recently and successfully completed a phase-3 clinical trial, to identify how this virus is attenuated compared to its wild-type parent, DENV2 16681. Site-directed mutagenesis on a 16681 infectious clone identifies a single G53D substitution in the non-structural 1 (NS1) protein that reduces 16681 infection and dissemination in both Aedes aegypti, as well as in mammalian cells to produce the characteristic phenotypes of PDK53. Mechanistically, NS1 G53D impairs the function of a known host factor, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident ribophorin 1 protein, to properly glycosylate NS1 and thus induce a host antiviral gene through ER stress responses. Our findings provide molecular insights on DENV attenuation on a clinically tested strain."	0
"32402285"	"HNF4A and GATA6 Loss Reveals Therapeutically Actionable Subtypes in Pancreatic Cancer.Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) can be divided into transcriptomic subtypes with two broad lineages referred to as classical (pancreatic) and squamous. We find that these two subtypes are driven by distinct metabolic phenotypes. Loss of genes that drive endodermal lineage specification, HNF4A and GATA6, switch metabolic profiles from classical (pancreatic) to predominantly squamous, with glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) a key regulator of glycolysis. Pharmacological inhibition of GSK3β results in selective sensitivity in the squamous subtype; however, a subset of these squamous patient-derived cell lines (PDCLs) acquires rapid drug tolerance. Using chromatin accessibility maps, we demonstrate that the squamous subtype can be further classified using chromatin accessibility to predict responsiveness and tolerance to GSK3β inhibitors. Our findings demonstrate that distinct patterns of chromatin accessibility can be used to identify patient subgroups that are indistinguishable by gene expression profiles, highlighting the utility of chromatin-based biomarkers for patient selection in the treatment of PDAC."	0
"32464092"	"Sequence-Independent Self-Assembly of Germ Granule mRNAs into Homotypic Clusters.mRNAs enriched in membraneless condensates provide functional compartmentalization within cells. The mechanisms that recruit transcripts to condensates are under intense study; however, how mRNAs organize once they reach a granule remains poorly understood. Here, we report on a self-sorting mechanism by which multiple mRNAs derived from the same gene assemble into discrete homotypic clusters. We demonstrate that in vivo mRNA localization to granules and self-assembly within granules are governed by different mRNA features: localization is encoded by specific RNA regions, whereas self-assembly involves the entire mRNA, does not involve sequence-specific, ordered intermolecular RNA:RNA interactions, and is thus RNA sequence independent. We propose that the ability of mRNAs to self-sort into homotypic assemblies is an inherent property of an messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) that is augmented under conditions that increase RNA concentration, such as upon enrichment in RNA-protein granules, a process that appears conserved in diverse cellular contexts and organisms."	0
"32294430"	"Cdk4 and Cdk6 Couple the Cell-Cycle Machinery to Cell Growth via mTORC1.Cell growth is coupled to cell-cycle progression in mitotically proliferating mammalian cells, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. CyclinD-Cdk4/6 is known to phosphorylate RB to promote S-phase entry, but recent work suggests they have additional functions. We show here that CyclinD-Cdk4/6 activates mTORC1 by binding and phosphorylating TSC2 on Ser1217 and Ser1452. Pharmacological inhibition of Cdk4/6 leads to a rapid, TSC2-dependent reduction of mTORC1 activity in multiple human and mouse cell lines, including breast cancer cells. By simultaneously driving mTORC1 and E2F, CyclinD-Cdk4/6 couples cell growth to cell-cycle progression. Consistent with this, we see that mTORC1 activity is cell cycle dependent in proliferating neural stem cells of the adult rodent brain. We find that Cdk4/6 inhibition reduces cell proliferation partly via TSC2 and mTORC1. This is of clinical relevance, because Cdk4/6 inhibitors are used for breast cancer therapy."	1
"32101753"	"Auto-ubiquitination of NEDD4-1 Recruits USP13 to Facilitate Autophagy through Deubiquitinating VPS34.The class III phosphoinositide 3-kinase vacuolar protein sorting 34 (VPS34) is a core protein of autophagy initiation, yet the regulatory mechanisms responsible for its stringent control remain poorly understood. Here, we report that the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4-1 promotes the autophagy flux by targeting VPS34. NEDD4-1 undergoes lysine 29 (K29)-linked auto-ubiquitination at K1279 and serves as a scaffold for recruiting the ubiquitin-specific protease 13 (USP13) to form an NEDD4-1-USP13 deubiquitination complex, which subsequently stabilizes VPS34 to promote autophagy through removing the K48-linked poly-ubiquitin chains from VPS34 at K419. Knockout of either NEDD4-1 or USP13 increased K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation of VPS34, thus attenuating the formation of the autophagosome. Our results identify an essential role for NEDD4-1 in regulating autophagy, which provides molecular insights into the mechanisms by which ubiquitination regulates autophagy flux."	1
"32348751"	"Pbrm1 Steers Mesenchymal Stromal Cell Osteolineage Differentiation by Integrating PBAF-Dependent Chromatin Remodeling and BMP/TGF-β Signaling.Bone morphogenic protein (BMP)/transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling determines mesenchymal-stromal-cell (MSC) osteolineage commitment and tissue identity. However, molecular integration of developmental signaling with MSC-intrinsic chromatin regulation remains incompletely understood. SWI/SNF-(BAF) is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler implicated in multi-cellular development. We show that BMPs and long-term osteogenic signals in MSCs selectively induce expression of polybromo BAF (PBAF) components Pbrm1, Arid2, and Brd7. Loss of Pbrm1/Arid2/Brd7 profoundly impairs osteolineage gene expression and osteogenesis without compromising adipogenesis. Pbrm1 loss attenuates MSC in vivo ossification. Mechanistically, Pbrm1/PBAF deficiency impairs Smad1/5/8 activation through locus-specific epi-genomic remodeling, involving Pbrm1 bromodomains, along with transcriptional downregulation of Bmpr/TgfβrII affecting BMP-early-responsive gene expression. Gain of function of BmprIβ, TgfβrII in PBAF-deficient MSCs partly restores Smad1/5/8 activation and osteogenesis. Pbrm1 loss further affects hematopoietic stem and progenitor activity through non-cell-autonomous regulation of microenvironment and niche-factor expression. Together, these findings reveal a link illustrating epi-genomic feedforward control of BMP/TGF-β signaling to transcriptional and cellular plasticity in the mesenchymal microenvironment and account for stromal-SWI/SNF in hematopoiesis."	1
"31053472"	"Ca<sup>2+</sup>-Stimulated AMPK-Dependent Phosphorylation of Exo1 Protects Stressed Replication Forks from Aberrant Resection.Abnormal processing of stressed replication forks by nucleases can cause fork collapse, genomic instability, and cell death. Despite its importance, it is poorly understood how the cell properly controls nucleases to prevent detrimental fork processing. Here, we report a signaling pathway that controls the activity of exonuclease Exo1 to prevent aberrant fork resection during replication stress. Our results indicate that replication stress elevates intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> concentration ([Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub>), leading to activation of CaMKK2 and the downstream kinase 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Following activation, AMPK directly phosphorylates Exo1 at serine 746 to promote 14-3-3 binding and inhibit Exo1 recruitment to stressed replication forks, thereby avoiding unscheduled fork resection. Disruption of this signaling pathway results in excessive ssDNA, chromosomal instability, and hypersensitivity to replication stress inducers. These findings reveal a link between [Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub> and the replication stress response as well as a function of the Ca<sup>2+</sup>-CaMKK2-AMPK signaling axis in safeguarding fork structure to maintain genome stability."	1
"32846116"	"The Zebrafish Dorsolateral Habenula Is Required for Updating Learned Behaviors.Operant learning requires multiple cognitive processes, such as learning, prediction of potential outcomes, and decision-making. It is less clear how interactions of these processes lead to the behavioral adaptations that allow animals to cope with a changing environment. We show that juvenile zebrafish can perform conditioned place avoidance learning, with improving performance across development. Ablation of the dorsolateral habenula (dlHb), a brain region involved in associative learning and prediction of outcomes, leads to an unexpected improvement in performance and delayed memory extinction. Interestingly, the control animals exhibit rapid adaptation to a changing learning rule, whereas dlHb-ablated animals fail to adapt. Altogether, our results show that the dlHb plays a central role in switching animals' strategies while integrating new evidence with prior experience."	0
"32668246"	"Multiomics Investigation Revealing the Characteristics of HIV-1-Infected Cells In Vivo.For eradication of HIV-1 infection, it is important to elucidate the detailed features and heterogeneity of HIV-1-infected cells in vivo. To reveal multiple characteristics of HIV-1-producing cells in vivo, we use a hematopoietic-stem-cell-transplanted humanized mouse model infected with GFP-encoding replication-competent HIV-1. We perform multiomics experiments using recently developed technology to identify the features of HIV-1-infected cells. Genome-wide HIV-1 integration-site analysis reveals that productive HIV-1 infection tends to occur in cells with viral integration into transcriptionally active genomic regions. Bulk transcriptome analysis reveals that a high level of viral mRNA is transcribed in HIV-1-infected cells. Moreover, single-cell transcriptome analysis shows the heterogeneity of HIV-1-infected cells, including CXCL13<sup>high</sup> cells and a subpopulation with low expression of interferon-stimulated genes, which can contribute to efficient viral spread in vivo. Our findings describe multiple characteristics of HIV-1-producing cells in vivo, which could provide clues for the development of an HIV-1 cure."	0
"31278054"	"TSPYL5 Depletion Induces Specific Death of ALT Cells through USP7-Dependent Proteasomal Degradation of POT1.A significant fraction (∼10%) of cancer cells maintain their telomere length via a telomerase-independent mechanism known as alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). There are no known molecular, ALT-specific, therapeutic targets. We have identified TSPYL5 (testis-specific Y-encoded-like protein 5) as a PML body component, co-localizing with ALT telomeres and critical for ALT<sup>+</sup> cell viability. TSPYL5 was described as an inhibitor of the USP7 deubiquitinase. We report that TSPYL5 prevents the poly-ubiquitination of POT1-a shelterin component-and protects POT1 from proteasomal degradation exclusively in ALT<sup>+</sup> cells. USP7 depletion rescued POT1 poly-ubiquitination and loss, suggesting that the deubiquitinase activates POT1 E3 ubiquitin ligase(s). Similarly, PML depletion suppressed POT1 poly-ubiquitination, suggesting an interplay between USP7 and PML to trigger POT1 degradation in TSPYL5-depleted ALT<sup>+</sup> cells. We demonstrate that ALT telomeres need to be protected from POT1 degradation in ALT-associated PML bodies and identify TSPYL5 as an ALT<sup>+</sup> cancer-specific therapeutic target."	1
"32446320"	"Opposing Functions of BRD4 Isoforms in Breast Cancer.Bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) is a cancer therapeutic target in ongoing clinical trials disrupting primarily BRD4-regulated transcription programs. The role of BRD4 in cancer has been attributed mainly to the abundant long isoform (BRD4-L). Here we show, by isoform-specific knockdown and endogenous protein detection, along with transgene expression, the less abundant BRD4 short isoform (BRD4-S) is oncogenic while BRD4-L is tumor-suppressive in breast cancer cell proliferation and migration, as well as mammary tumor formation and metastasis. Through integrated RNA-seq, genome-wide ChIP-seq, and CUT&RUN association profiling, we identify the Engrailed-1 (EN1) homeobox transcription factor as a key BRD4-S coregulator, particularly in triple-negative breast cancer. BRD4-S and EN1 comodulate the extracellular matrix (ECM)-associated matrisome network, including type II cystatin gene cluster, mucin 5, and cathepsin loci, via enhancer regulation of cancer-associated genes and pathways. Our work highlights the importance of targeted therapies for the oncogenic, but not tumor-suppressive, activity of BRD4."	0
"32611767"	"Hairpin RNA-induced conformational change of a eukaryotic-specific lysyl-tRNA synthetase extension and role of adjacent anticodon-binding domain.Human lysyl-tRNA synthetase (hLysRS) is essential for aminoacylation of tRNA<sup>Lys</sup> Higher eukaryotic LysRSs possess an N-terminal extension (Nterm) previously shown to facilitate high-affinity tRNA binding and aminoacylation. This eukaryote-specific appended domain also plays a critical role in hLysRS nuclear localization, thus facilitating noncanonical functions of hLysRS. The structure is intrinsically disordered and therefore remains poorly characterized. Findings of previous studies are consistent with the Nterm domain undergoing a conformational transition to an ordered structure upon nucleic acid binding. In this study, we used NMR to investigate how the type of RNA, as well as the presence of the adjacent anticodon-binding domain (ACB), influences the Nterm conformation. To explore the latter, we used sortase A ligation to produce a segmentally labeled tandem-domain protein, Nterm-ACB. In the absence of RNA, Nterm remained disordered regardless of ACB attachment. Both alone and when attached to ACB, Nterm structure remained unaffected by titration with single-stranded RNAs. The central region of the Nterm domain adopted α-helical structure upon titration of Nterm and Nterm-ACB with RNA hairpins containing double-stranded regions. Nterm binding to the RNA hairpins resulted in CD spectral shifts consistent with an induced helical structure. NMR and fluorescence anisotropy revealed that Nterm binding to hairpin RNAs is weak but that the binding affinity increases significantly upon covalent attachment to ACB. We conclude that the ACB domain facilitates induced-fit conformational changes and confers high-affinity RNA hairpin binding, which may be advantageous for functional interactions of LysRS with a variety of different binding partners."	0
"30472188"	"OTUB2 Promotes Cancer Metastasis via Hippo-Independent Activation of YAP and TAZ.The transcriptional regulators YAP and TAZ play important roles in development, physiology, and tumorigenesis and are negatively controlled by the Hippo pathway. It is yet unknown why the YAP/ TAZ proteins are frequently activated in human malignancies in which the Hippo pathway is still active. Here, by a gain-of-function cancer metastasis screen, we discovered OTUB2 as a cancer stemness and metastasis-promoting factor that deubiquitinates and activates YAP/TAZ. We found OTUB2 to be poly-SUMOylated on lysine 233, and this SUMOylation enables it to bind YAP/TAZ. We also identified a yet-unknown SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) in YAP and TAZ required for their association with SUMOylated OTUB2. Importantly, EGF and oncogenic KRAS induce OTUB2 poly-SUMOylation and thereby activate YAP/TAZ. Our results establish OTUB2 as an essential modulator of YAP/TAZ and also reveal a novel mechanism via which YAP/TAZ activity is induced by oncogenic KRAS."	1
"32703900"	"Regulation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 dynamics through multisite phosphorylation by GSK3.Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 (eIF6) is essential for the synthesis of 60S ribosomal subunits and for regulating the association of 60S and 40S subunits. A mechanistic understanding of how eIF6 modulates translation in response to stress, specifically starvation-induced stress, is lacking. We here show a novel mode of eIF6 regulation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) that is predominantly active in response to serum starvation. Both GSK3α and GSK3β phosphorylate human eIF6. Multiple residues in the C terminus of eIF6 are phosphorylated by GSK3 in a sequential manner. In response to serum starvation, eIF6 accumulates in the cytoplasm, and this altered localization depends on phosphorylation by GSK3. Disruption of eIF6 phosphorylation exacerbates the translation inhibitory response to serum starvation and stalls cell growth. These results suggest that eIF6 regulation by GSK3 contributes to the attenuation of global protein synthesis that is critical for adaptation to starvation-induced stress."	1
"30581142"	"Drp1-Zip1 Interaction Regulates Mitochondrial Quality Surveillance System.Mitophagy, a mitochondrial quality control process for eliminating dysfunctional mitochondria, can be induced by a response of dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) to a reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and mitochondrial division. However, the coordination between MMP and mitochondrial division for selecting the damaged portion of the mitochondrial network is less understood. Here, we found that MMP is reduced focally at a fission site by the Drp1 recruitment, which is initiated by the interaction of Drp1 with mitochondrial zinc transporter Zip1 and Zn<sup>2+</sup> entry through the Zip1-MCU complex. After division, healthy mitochondria restore MMP levels and participate in the fusion-fission cycle again, but mitochondria that fail to restore MMP undergo mitophagy. Thus, interfering with the interaction between Drp1 and Zip1 blocks the reduction of MMP and the subsequent mitophagic selection of damaged mitochondria. These results suggest that Drp1-dependent fission provides selective pressure for eliminating ""bad sectors"" in the mitochondrial network, serving as a mitochondrial quality surveillance system."	1
"32647011"	"The key royal jelly component 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid protects against bone loss by inhibiting NF-κB signaling downstream of FFAR4.The supplementation of royal jelly (RJ) is known to provide a variety of health benefits, including anti-inflammatory and anti-obesity effects. RJ treatment also reportedly protects against bone loss, but no single factor in RJ has yet been identified as an anti-osteoporosis agent. Here we fractionated RJ and identified 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid (10H2DA) as a key component involved in inhibiting osteoclastogenesis based on mass spectrometric analysis. We further demonstrated free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4) as directly interacting with 10H2DA; binding of 10H2DA to FFAR4 on osteoclasts inhibited receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) ligand (RANKL)-induced activation of NF-κB signaling, thereby attenuating the induction of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) c1, a key transcription factor for osteoclastogenesis. Oral administration of 10H2DA attenuated bone resorption in ovariectomized mice. These results suggest a potential therapeutic approach of targeting osteoclast differentiation by the supplementation of RJ, and specifically 10H2DA, in cases of pathological bone loss such as occur in postmenopausal osteoporosis."	1
"32554806"	"Nucleolar localization of the yeast RNA exosome subunit Rrp44 hints at early pre-rRNA processing as its main function.The RNA exosome is a multisubunit protein complex involved in RNA surveillance of all classes of RNA, and is essential for pre-rRNA processing. The exosome is conserved throughout evolution, present in archaea and eukaryotes from yeast to humans, where it localizes to the nucleus and cytoplasm. The catalytically active subunit Rrp44/Dis3 of the exosome in budding yeast (<i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i>) is considered a protein present in these two subcellular compartments, and here we report that it not only localizes mainly to the nucleus, but is concentrated in the nucleolus, where the early pre-rRNA processing reactions take place. Moreover, we show by confocal microscopy analysis that the core exosome subunits Rrp41 and Rrp43 also localize largely to the nucleus and strongly accumulate in the nucleolus. These results shown here shed additional light on the localization of the yeast exosome and have implications regarding the main function of this RNase complex, which seems to be primarily in early pre-rRNA processing and surveillance."	0
"32668215"	"Human-IgG-Neutralizing Monoclonal Antibodies Block the SARS-CoV-2 Infection.Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has become a worldwide threat to humans, and neutralizing antibodies have therapeutic potential. We have purified more than 1,000 memory B cells specific to SARS-CoV-2 S1 or its RBD (receptor binding domain) and obtain 729 paired heavy- and light-chain fragments. Among these, 178 antibodies test positive for antigen binding, and the majority of the top 17 binders with EC<sub>50</sub> below 1 nM are RBD binders. Furthermore, we identify 11 neutralizing antibodies, eight of which show IC<sub>50</sub> within 10 nM, and the best one, 414-1, with IC<sub>50</sub> of 1.75 nM. Through epitope mapping, we find three main epitopes in RBD recognized by these antibodies, and epitope-B antibody 553-15 could substantially enhance the neutralizing abilities of most of the other antibodies. We also find that 515-5 could cross neutralize the SARS-CoV pseudovirus. Altogether, our study provides 11 potent human neutralizing antibodies for COVID-19 as therapeutic candidates."	0
"31995728"	"AMPK, a Regulator of Metabolism and Autophagy, Is Activated by Lysosomal Damage via a Novel Galectin-Directed Ubiquitin Signal Transduction System.AMPK is a central regulator of metabolism and autophagy. Here we show how lysosomal damage activates AMPK. This occurs via a hitherto unrecognized signal transduction system whereby cytoplasmic sentinel lectins detect membrane damage leading to ubiquitination responses. Absence of Galectin 9 (Gal9) or loss of its capacity to recognize lumenal glycans exposed during lysosomal membrane damage abrogate such ubiquitination responses. Proteomic analyses with APEX2-Gal9 have revealed global changes within the Gal9 interactome during lysosomal damage. Gal9 association with lysosomal glycoproteins increases whereas interactions with a newly identified Gal9 partner, deubiquitinase USP9X, diminishes upon lysosomal injury. In response to damage, Gal9 displaces USP9X from complexes with TAK1 and promotes K63 ubiquitination of TAK1 thus activating AMPK on damaged lysosomes. This triggers autophagy and contributes to autophagic control of membrane-damaging microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Thus, galectin and ubiquitin systems converge to activate AMPK and autophagy during endomembrane homeostasis."	1
"32616520"	"Identification of a localized nonsense-mediated decay pathway at the endoplasmic reticulum.Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a translation-dependent RNA quality control mechanism that occurs in the cytoplasm. However, it is unknown how NMD regulates the stability of RNAs translated at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here, we identify a localized NMD pathway dedicated to ER-translated mRNAs. We previously identified NBAS, a component of the Syntaxin 18 complex involved in Golgi-to-ER trafficking, as a novel NMD factor. Furthermore, we show that NBAS fulfills an independent function in NMD. This ER-NMD pathway requires the interaction of NBAS with the core NMD factor UPF1, which is partially localized at the ER in the proximity of the translocon. NBAS and UPF1 coregulate the stability of ER-associated transcripts, in particular those associated with the cellular stress response. We propose a model where NBAS recruits UPF1 to the membrane of the ER and activates an ER-dedicated NMD pathway, thus providing an ER-protective function by ensuring quality control of ER-translated mRNAs."	1
"32402286"	"CCDC57 Cooperates with Microtubules and Microcephaly Protein CEP63 and Regulates Centriole Duplication and Mitotic Progression.Centrosomes function in key cellular processes ranging from cell division to cellular signaling. Their dysfunction is linked to cancer and developmental disorders. Here, we identify CCDC57 as a pleiotropic regulator of centriole duplication, mitosis, and ciliogenesis. Combining proximity mapping with superresolution imaging, we show that CCDC57 localizes to the proximal end of centrioles and interacts with the microcephaly protein CEP63, centriolar satellite proteins, and microtubules. Loss of CCDC57 causes defects in centriole duplication and results in a failure to localize CEP63 and CEP152 to the centrosome. Additionally, CCDC57 depletion perturbs mitotic progression both in wild-type and centriole-less cells. Importantly, its centrosome-targeting region is required for its interaction with CEP63 and functions during centriole duplication and cilium assembly, whereas the microtubule-targeting region is required for its mitotic functions. Together, our results identify CCDC57 as a critical interface between centrosome and microtubule-mediated cellular processes that are deregulated in microcephaly."	1
"32579923"	"Microglia Dysfunction Caused by the Loss of Rhoa Disrupts Neuronal Physiology and Leads to Neurodegeneration.Nervous tissue homeostasis requires the regulation of microglia activity. Using conditional gene targeting in mice, we demonstrate that genetic ablation of the small GTPase Rhoa in adult microglia is sufficient to trigger spontaneous microglia activation, producing a neurological phenotype (including synapse and neuron loss, impairment of long-term potentiation [LTP], formation of β-amyloid plaques, and memory deficits). Mechanistically, loss of Rhoa in microglia triggers Src activation and Src-mediated tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, leading to excitotoxic glutamate secretion. Inhibiting Src in microglia Rhoa-deficient mice attenuates microglia dysregulation and the ensuing neurological phenotype. We also find that the Rhoa/Src signaling pathway is disrupted in microglia of the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer disease and that low doses of Aβ oligomers trigger microglia neurotoxic polarization through the disruption of Rhoa-to-Src signaling. Overall, our results indicate that disturbing Rho GTPase signaling in microglia can directly cause neurodegeneration."	1
"32101731"	"Non-canonical Caspase-1 Signaling Drives RIP2-Dependent and TNF-α-Mediated Inflammation In Vivo.Pro-inflammatory caspase-1 is a key player in innate immunity. Caspase-1 processes interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18 to their mature forms and triggers pyroptosis. These caspase-1 functions are linked to its enzymatic activity. However, loss-of-function missense mutations in CASP1 do not prevent autoinflammation in patients, despite decreased IL-1β production. In vitro data suggest that enzymatically inactive caspase-1 drives inflammation via enhanced nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) activation, independent of IL-1β processing. Here, we report two mouse models of enzymatically inactive caspase-1-C284A, demonstrating the relevance of this pathway in vivo. In contrast to Casp1<sup>-/-</sup> mice, caspase-1-C284A mice show pronounced hypothermia and increased levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and IL-6 when challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Caspase-1-C284A signaling is RIP2 dependent and mediated by TNF-α but independent of the NLRP3 inflammasome. LPS-stimulated whole blood from patients carrying loss-of-function missense mutations in CASP1 secretes higher amounts of TNF-α. Taken together, these results reveal non-canonical caspase-1 signaling in vivo."	0
"32668239"	"The Apparent Requirement for Protein Synthesis during G2 Phase Is due to Checkpoint Activation.Protein synthesis inhibitors (e.g., cycloheximide) block mitotic entry, suggesting that cell cycle progression requires protein synthesis until right before mitosis. However, cycloheximide is also known to activate p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), which can delay mitotic entry through a G2/M checkpoint. Here, we ask whether checkpoint activation or a requirement for protein synthesis is responsible for the cycloheximide effect. We find that p38 inhibitors prevent cycloheximide-treated cells from arresting in G2 phase and that G2 duration is normal in approximately half of these cells. The Wee1 inhibitor MK-1775 and Wee1/Myt1 inhibitor PD0166285 also prevent cycloheximide from blocking mitotic entry, raising the possibility that Wee1 and/or Myt1 mediate the cycloheximide-induced G2 arrest. Thus, protein synthesis during G2 phase is not required for mitotic entry, at least when the p38 checkpoint pathway is abrogated. However, M phase progression is delayed in cycloheximide-plus-kinase-inhibitor-treated cells, emphasizing the different requirements of protein synthesis for timely entry and completion of mitosis."	1
"32075732"	"Pulsatile MAPK Signaling Modulates p53 Activity to Control Cell Fate Decisions at the G2 Checkpoint for DNA Damage.Cell-autonomous changes in p53 expression govern the duration and outcome of cell-cycle arrest at the G2 checkpoint for DNA damage. Here, we report that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling integrates extracellular cues with p53 dynamics to determine cell fate at the G2 checkpoint. Optogenetic tools and quantitative cell biochemistry reveal transient oscillations in MAPK activity dependent on ataxia-telangiectasia-mutated kinase after DNA damage. MAPK inhibition alters p53 dynamics and p53-dependent gene expression after checkpoint enforcement, prolonging G2 arrest. In contrast, sustained MAPK signaling induces the phosphorylation of CDC25C, and consequently, the accumulation of pro-mitotic kinases, thereby relaxing checkpoint stringency and permitting cells to evade prolonged G2 arrest and senescence induction. We propose a model in which this MAPK-mediated mechanism integrates extracellular cues with cell-autonomous p53-mediated signals, to safeguard genomic integrity during tissue proliferation. Early steps in oncogene-driven carcinogenesis may imbalance this tumor-suppressive mechanism to trigger genome instability."	0
"32690888"	"Regulated IFN signalling preserves the stemness of intestinal stem cells by restricting differentiation into secretory-cell lineages.Intestinal stem cells (ISCs) are located at the crypt base and fine-tune the balance of their self-renewal and differentiation<sup>1,2</sup>, but the physiological mechanism involved in regulating that balance remains unknown. Here we describe a transcriptional regulator that preserves the stemness of ISCs by restricting their differentiation into secretory-cell lineages. Interferon regulatory factor 2 (IRF2) negatively regulates interferon signalling<sup>3</sup>, and mice completely lacking Irf2<sup>4</sup> or with a selective Irf2 deletion in their intestinal epithelial cells have significantly fewer crypt Lgr5<sup>hi</sup> ISCs than control mice. Although the integrity of intestinal epithelial cells was unimpaired at steady state in Irf2-deficient mice, regeneration of their intestinal epithelia after 5-fluorouracil-induced damage was severely impaired. Similarly, extended treatment with low-dose poly(I:C) or chronic infection of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus clone 13 (LCMV C13)<sup>5</sup> caused a functional decline of ISCs in wild-type mice. In contrast, massive accumulations of immature Paneth cells were found at the crypt base of Irf2<sup>-/-</sup> as well as LCMV C13-infected wild-type mice, indicating that excess interferon signalling directs ISCs towards a secretory-cell fate. Collectively, our findings indicate that regulated interferon signalling preserves ISC stemness by restricting secretory-cell differentiation."	0
"32532817"	"T cell receptor interactions with human leukocyte antigen govern indirect peptide selectivity for the cancer testis antigen MAGE-A4.T cell-mediated immunity is governed primarily by T cell receptor (TCR) recognition of peptide-human leukocyte antigen (pHLA) complexes and is essential for immunosurveillance and disease control. This interaction is generally stabilized by interactions between the HLA surface and TCR germline-encoded complementarity-determining region (CDR) loops 1 and 2, whereas peptide selectivity is guided by direct interactions with the TCR CDR3 loops. Here, we solved the structure of a newly identified TCR in complex with a clinically relevant peptide derived from the cancer testis antigen melanoma antigen-A4 (MAGE-A4). The TCR bound pHLA in a position shifted toward the peptide's N terminus. This enabled the TCR to achieve peptide selectivity via an indirect mechanism, whereby the TCR sensed the first residue of the peptide through HLA residue Trp-167, which acted as a tunable gateway. Amino acid substitutions at peptide position 1 predicted to alter the HLA Trp-167 side-chain conformation abrogated TCR binding, indicating that this indirect binding mechanism is essential for peptide recognition. These findings extend our understanding of the molecular rules that underpin antigen recognition by TCRs and have important implications for the development of TCR-based therapies."	0
"32023465"	"Dynamics of the Coreceptor-LCK Interactions during T Cell Development Shape the Self-Reactivity of Peripheral CD4 and CD8 T Cells.Overtly self-reactive T cells are removed during thymic selection. However, it has been recently established that T cell self-reactivity promotes protective immune responses. Apparently, the level of self-reactivity of mature T cells must be tightly balanced. Our mathematical model and experimental data show that the dynamic regulation of CD4- and CD8-LCK coupling establish the self-reactivity of the peripheral T cell pool. The stoichiometry of the interaction between CD8 and LCK, but not between CD4 and LCK, substantially increases upon T cell maturation. As a result, peripheral CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells are more self-reactive than CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells. The different levels of self-reactivity of mature CD8<sup>+</sup> and CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells likely reflect the unique roles of these subsets in immunity. These results indicate that the evolutionary selection pressure tuned the CD4-LCK and CD8-LCK stoichiometries, as they represent the unique parts of the proximal T cell receptor (TCR) signaling pathway, which differ between CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells."	0
"32580946"	"Muscarinic-dependent phosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor by protein kinase G is mediated by PI3K-AKT-nNOS signaling.Post-translational modifications of proteins involved in calcium handling in myocytes, such as the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2), critically regulate cardiac contractility. Recent studies have suggested that phosphorylation of RyR2 by protein kinase G (PKG) might contribute to the cardioprotective effects of cholinergic stimulation. However, the specific mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. Here, using murine ventricular myocytes, immunoblotting, proximity ligation as-says, and nitric oxide imaging, we report that phosphorylation of Ser-2808 in RyR2 induced by the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol is mediated by a signaling axis comprising phosphoinositide 3-phosphate kinase, Akt Ser/Thr kinase, nitric oxide synthase 1, nitric oxide, soluble guanylate cyclase, cyclic GMP (cGMP), and PKG. We found that this signaling pathway is compartmentalized in myocytes, as it was distinct from atrial natriuretic peptide receptor-cGMP-PKG-RyR2 Ser-2808 signaling and independent of muscarinic-induced phosphorylation of Ser-239 in vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein. These results provide detailed insights into muscarinic-induced PKG signaling and the mediators that regulate cardiac RyR2 phosphorylation critical for cardiovascular function."	1
"31474573"	"Polyamines Control eIF5A Hypusination, TFEB Translation, and Autophagy to Reverse B Cell Senescence.Failure to make adaptive immune responses is a hallmark of aging. Reduced B cell function leads to poor vaccination efficacy and a high prevalence of infections in the elderly. Here we show that reduced autophagy is a central molecular mechanism underlying immune senescence. Autophagy levels are specifically reduced in mature lymphocytes, leading to compromised memory B cell responses in old individuals. Spermidine, an endogenous polyamine metabolite, induces autophagy in vivo and rejuvenates memory B cell responses. Mechanistically, spermidine post-translationally modifies the translation factor eIF5A, which is essential for the synthesis of the autophagy transcription factor TFEB. Spermidine is depleted in the elderly, leading to reduced TFEB expression and autophagy. Spermidine supplementation restored this pathway and improved the responses of old human B cells. Taken together, our results reveal an unexpected autophagy regulatory mechanism mediated by eIF5A at the translational level, which can be harnessed to reverse immune senescence in humans."	1
"32433965"	"Unbiased Identification of trans Regulators of ADAR and A-to-I RNA Editing.Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing is catalyzed by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) enzymes that deaminate adenosine to inosine. Although many RNA editing sites are known, few trans regulators have been identified. We perform BioID followed by mass spectrometry to identify trans regulators of ADAR1 and ADAR2 in HeLa and M17 neuroblastoma cells. We identify known and novel ADAR-interacting proteins. Using ENCODE data, we validate and characterize a subset of the novel interactors as global or site-specific RNA editing regulators. Our set of novel trans regulators includes all four members of the DZF-domain-containing family of proteins: ILF3, ILF2, STRBP, and ZFR. We show that these proteins interact with each ADAR and modulate RNA editing levels. We find ILF3 is a broadly influential negative regulator of editing. This work demonstrates the broad roles that RNA binding proteins play in regulating editing levels, and establishes DZF-domain-containing proteins as a group of highly influential RNA editing regulators."	1
"31914399"	"Modest Declines in Proteome Quality Impair Hematopoietic Stem Cell Self-Renewal.Low protein synthesis is a feature of somatic stem cells that promotes regeneration in multiple tissues. Modest increases in protein synthesis impair stem cell function, but the mechanisms by which this occurs are largely unknown. We determine that low protein synthesis within hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is associated with elevated proteome quality in vivo. HSCs contain less misfolded and unfolded proteins than myeloid progenitors. Increases in protein synthesis cause HSCs to accumulate misfolded and unfolded proteins. To test how proteome quality affects HSCs, we examine Aars<sup>sti/sti</sup> mice that harbor a tRNA editing defect that increases amino acid misincorporation. Aars<sup>sti/sti</sup> mice exhibit reduced HSC numbers, increased proliferation, and diminished serial reconstituting activity. Misfolded proteins overwhelm the proteasome within Aars<sup>sti/sti</sup> HSCs, which is associated with increased c-Myc abundance. Deletion of one Myc allele partially rescues serial reconstitution defects in Aars<sup>sti/sti</sup> HSCs. Thus, HSCs are dependent on low protein synthesis to maintain proteostasis, which promotes their self-renewal."	0
"32747476"	"FoxA factors: the chromatin key and doorstop essential for liver development and function.Pioneer factors are transcriptional regulators with the capacity to bind inactive regions of chromatin and induce changes in accessibility that underpin cell fate decisions. The FOXA family of transcription factors is well understood to have pioneer capacity. Indeed, researchers have uncovered numerous examples of FOXA-dependent epigenomic modulation in developmental and disease processes. Despite the presence of FOXA being essential for correct epigenetic patterning, the need for continued FOXA presence postchromatin modulation has been debated. In a recent study in this issue of <i>Genes & Development</i>, Reizel and colleagues (pp. 1039-1050) show that the tissue-specific ablation of FOXA1/2/3 in the adult mouse liver results in the collapse of the epigenetic profile that maintains the hepatic gene expression profile. Thus, FOXA functions as a key, opening regions of chromatin during development, and as a doorstep, maintaining the established euchromatic structure in adult tissue."	0
"30952515"	"Interleukin-1β Induces mtDNA Release to Activate Innate Immune Signaling via cGAS-STING.Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) is a pleiotropic mediator of inflammation and is produced in response to a wide range of stimuli. During infection, IL-1β production occurs in parallel with the onset of innate antimicrobial defenses, but the contribution of IL-1β signaling to cell-intrinsic immunity is not defined. Here, we report that exogenous IL-1β induces interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) activation in human myeloid, fibroblast, and epithelial cells. IRF3 activation by IL-1β is dependent upon the DNA-sensing pathway adaptor, stimulator of interferon genes (STING), through the recognition of cytosolic mtDNA by cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-AMP synthase (cGAS). IL-1β treatment results in interferon (IFN) production and activation of IFN signaling to direct a potent innate immune response that restricts dengue virus infection. This study identifies a new function for IL-1β in the onset or enhancement of cell-intrinsic immunity, with important implications for cGAS-STING in integrating inflammatory and microbial cues for host defense."	1
"32521278"	"Enhancer-Driven lncRNA BDNF-AS Induces Endocrine Resistance and Malignant Progression of Breast Cancer through the RNH1/TRIM21/mTOR Cascade.Epigenomic alterations can give rise to various tumor-promoting properties, including therapeutic resistance of cancer cells. Here, we identify an lncRNA, BDNF-AS, whose overexpression is specifically driven by a MEF2A-regulated enhancer in endocrine-resistant and triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). High levels of BDNF-AS in breast cancer tissues not only feature endocrine resistance in hormone receptor (HR)-positive patients but also correlate with poor outcomes in both HR-positive and TNBC patients. Mechanistically, BDNF-AS acts as a molecular scaffold to promote RNH1 protein degradation via TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination of RNH1 at K225. Subsequently, BDNF-AS abolishes RNH1-regulated and RISC-mediated mTOR mRNA decay, therefore sustaining the activation of mTOR signaling. Importantly, mTOR inhibitor, but not PI3K inhibitor, could reverse tamoxifen resistance induced by the overexpression of BDNF-AS. These results point toward a master regulatory role of an enhancer-activated cascade of BDNF-AS/RNH1/TRIM21/mTOR in endocrine resistance and malignant progression of breast cancer."	1
"31564558"	"Metabolic Diversity in Human Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Cells.Intermediary metabolism in cancer cells is regulated by diverse cell-autonomous processes, including signal transduction and gene expression patterns, arising from specific oncogenotypes and cell lineages. Although it is well established that metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer, we lack a full view of the diversity of metabolic programs in cancer cells and an unbiased assessment of the associations between metabolic pathway preferences and other cell-autonomous processes. Here, we quantified metabolic features, mostly from the <sup>13</sup>C enrichment of molecules from central carbon metabolism, in over 80 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines cultured under identical conditions. Because these cell lines were extensively annotated for oncogenotype, gene expression, protein expression, and therapeutic sensitivity, the resulting database enables the user to uncover new relationships between metabolism and these orthogonal processes."	0
"32668254"	"Antagonistic Activities of Vegfr3/Flt4 and Notch1b Fine-tune Mechanosensitive Signaling during Zebrafish Cardiac Valvulogenesis.The formation of cardiac valves depends on mechanical forces exerted by blood flow. Endocardial cells lining the interior of the heart are sensitive to these stimuli and respond by rearranging into luminal cells subjected to shear stress and abluminal cells not exposed to it. The mechanisms by which endocardial cells sense these dynamic biomechanical stimuli and how they evoke different cellular responses are largely unknown. Here, we show that blood flow activates two parallel mechanosensitive pathways, one mediated by Notch and the other by Klf2a. Both pathways negatively regulate the angiogenesis receptor Vegfr3/Flt4, which becomes restricted to abluminal endocardial cells. Its loss disrupts valve morphogenesis and results in the occurrence of Notch signaling within abluminal endocardial cells. Our work explains how antagonistic activities by Vegfr3/Flt4 on the abluminal side and by Notch on the luminal side shape cardiac valve leaflets by triggering unique differences in the fates of endocardial cells."	1
"32268106"	"T Cell Factor 1 Suppresses CD103+ Lung Tissue-Resident Memory T Cell Development.T cell factor 1 (Tcf1) promotes the central memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T (T<sub>CM</sub>) cell differentiation and stemness in lymphoid tissues after systemic infections. It remains unclear whether Tcf1 regulates the CD103<sup>high</sup> tissue-resident memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T (T<sub>RM</sub>) cell formation in non-lymphoid tissues after mucosal infections. We find that Tcf1 is progressively decreased during lung T<sub>RM</sub> cell formation. Abrogation of transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling is associated with a loss of CD103<sup>+</sup> and reciprocal gain of Tcf1<sup>+</sup> cells among T<sub>RM</sub> precursors in vivo. T-cell-specific ablation of Tcf7 enhances CD103 protein expression in T<sub>RM</sub> cells and precursors and increases T<sub>RM</sub> cell numbers after primary and secondary infections. Tcf1 directly binds to the Itgae (encoding CD103) locus and partly inhibits TGF-β-induced CD103 expression. Our study suggests that memory T cell tissue residency and homeostatic proliferation are reciprocally regulated by Tcf1. Tcf1 may play either immunosupportive or immunosuppressive roles in CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, depending on systemic or mucosal infections."	1
"32187535"	"Morphine and Naloxone Facilitate Neural Stem Cells Proliferation via a TET1-Dependent and Receptor-Independent Pathway.Normally, opioids function in a receptor-dependent manner. They bind to opioid receptors, activate or inhibit receptor activation, and subsequently modulate downstream signal transduction. However, the complex functions of opioids and the low expression of opioid receptors and their endogenous peptide agonists in neural stem cells (NSCs) suggest that some opioids may also modulate NSCs via a receptor-independent pathway. In the current study, two opioids, morphine and naloxone, are demonstrated to facilitate NSC proliferation via a receptor-independent and ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1)-dependent pathway. Morphine and naloxone penetrate cell membrane, bind to TET1 protein via three key residues (1,880-1,882), and subsequently result in facilitated proliferation of NSCs. In addition, the two opioids also inhibit the DNA demethylation ability of TET1. In summary, the current results connect opioids and DNA demethylation directly at least in NSCs and extend our understanding on both opioids and NSCs."	1
"30905508"	"Cut-and-Run: A Distinct Mechanism by which V(D)J Recombination Causes Genome Instability.V(D)J recombination is essential to generate antigen receptor diversity but is also a potent cause of genome instability. Many chromosome alterations that result from aberrant V(D)J recombination involve breaks at single recombination signal sequences (RSSs). A long-standing question, however, is how such breaks occur. Here, we show that the genomic DNA that is excised during recombination, the excised signal circle (ESC), forms a complex with the recombinase proteins to efficiently catalyze breaks at single RSSs both in vitro and in vivo. Following cutting, the RSS is released while the ESC-recombinase complex remains intact to potentially trigger breaks at further RSSs. Consistent with this, chromosome breaks at RSSs increase markedly in the presence of the ESC. Notably, these breaks co-localize with those found in acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients and occur at key cancer driver genes. We have named this reaction ""cut-and-run"" and suggest that it could be a significant cause of lymphocyte genome instability."	0
"32023451"	"A Positive Feedback Loop of TET3 and TGF-β1 Promotes Liver Fibrosis.Pathological activation of TGF-β signaling is universal in fibrosis. Aberrant TGF-β signaling in conjunction with transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) into fibrogenic myofibroblasts plays a central role in liver fibrosis. Here we report that the DNA demethylase TET3 is anomalously upregulated in fibrotic livers in both humans and mice. We demonstrate that in human HSCs, TET3 promotes profibrotic gene expression by upregulation of multiple key TGF-β pathway genes, including TGFB1. TET3 binds to target gene promoters, inducing demethylation, which in turn facilitates chromatin remodeling and transcription. We also reveal a positive feedback loop between TGF-β1 and TET3 in both HSCs and hepatocytes. Furthermore, TET3 knockdown ameliorates liver fibrosis in mice. Our results uncover a TET3/TGF-β1 positive feedback loop as a crucial determinant of liver fibrosis and suggest that inhibiting TET3 may represent a therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis and perhaps other fibrotic diseases."	1
"32792353"	"The Daam2-VHL-Nedd4 axis governs developmental and regenerative oligodendrocyte differentiation.Dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS) enables pathogenic accumulation of disease-driving proteins in neurons across a host of neurological disorders. However, whether and how the UPS contributes to oligodendrocyte dysfunction and repair after white matter injury (WMI) remains undefined. Here we show that the E3 ligase VHL interacts with Daam2 and their mutual antagonism regulates oligodendrocyte differentiation during development. Using proteomic analysis of the Daam2-VHL complex coupled with conditional genetic knockout mouse models, we further discovered that the E3 ubiquitin ligase <i>Nedd4</i> is required for developmental myelination through stabilization of VHL via K63-linked ubiquitination. Furthermore, studies in mouse demyelination models and white matter lesions from patients with multiple sclerosis corroborate the function of this pathway during remyelination after WMI. Overall, these studies provide evidence that a signaling axis involving key UPS components contributes to oligodendrocyte development and repair and reveal a new role for <i>Nedd4</i> in glial biology."	1
"32268100"	"NKT Cells Join the Two Step for Inflammasome-Independent IL-1β Release.The cytokine interleukin-1β (IL-1β) is critical for antimicrobial defenses; the inflammasome pathway typically controls IL-1β release, but pathogens often evade this pathway. In this issue, Donado et al. (2020) describe an alternative, two-cell model, to instruct inflammasome-independent IL-1β release."	0
"32726635"	"Bab2 Functions as an Ecdysone-Responsive Transcriptional Repressor during Drosophila Development.Drosophila development is governed by distinct ecdysone steroid pulses that initiate spatially and temporally defined gene expression programs. The translation of these signals into tissue-specific responses is crucial for metamorphosis, but the mechanisms that confer specificity to systemic ecdysone pulses are far from understood. Here, we identify Bric-à-brac 2 (Bab2) as an ecdysone-responsive transcriptional repressor that controls temporal gene expression during larval to pupal transition. Bab2 is necessary to terminate Salivary gland secretion (Sgs) gene expression, while premature Bab2 expression blocks Sgs genes and causes precocious salivary gland histolysis. The timely expression of bab2 is controlled by the ecdysone-responsive transcription factor Broad, and manipulation of EcR/USP/Broad signaling induces inappropriate Bab2 expression and termination of Sgs gene expression. Bab2 directly binds to Sgs loci in vitro and represses all Sgs genes in vivo. Our work characterizes Bab2 as a temporal regulator of somatic gene expression in response to systemic ecdysone signaling."	1
"32755579"	"The Ubiquitin Ligase TRIP12 Limits PARP1 Trapping and Constrains PARP Inhibitor Efficiency.PARP inhibitors (PARPi) cause synthetic lethality in BRCA-deficient tumors. Whether specific vulnerabilities to PARPi exist beyond BRCA mutations and related defects in homology-directed repair (HDR) is not well understood. Here, we identify the ubiquitin E3 ligase TRIP12 as negative regulator of PARPi sensitivity. We show that TRIP12 controls steady-state PARP1 levels and limits PARPi-induced cytotoxic PARP1 trapping. Upon loss of TRIP12, elevated PARPi-induced PARP1 trapping causes increased DNA replication stress, DNA damage, cell cycle arrest, and cell death. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that TRIP12 binds PARP1 via a central PAR-binding WWE domain and, using its carboxy-terminal HECT domain, catalyzes polyubiquitylation of PARP1, triggering proteasomal degradation and preventing supra-physiological PARP1 accumulation. Further, in cohorts of breast and ovarian cancer patients, PARP1 abundance is negatively correlated with TRIP12 expression. We thus propose TRIP12 as regulator of PARP1 stability and PARPi-induced PARP trapping, with potential implications for PARPi sensitivity and resistance."	0
"32402289"	"Foxo3 Promotes the Differentiation and Function of Follicular Helper T Cells.Follicular helper T cells (Tfhs) are essential for germinal center (GC) B cell maturation and antibody development. However, the intrinsic mechanisms that regulate Tfh differentiation are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the frequencies of Tfhs and GC B cells, as well as interleukin-21 (IL-21) and anti-ovalbumin (OVA) antibodies, are markedly decreased in forkhead box O3 (Foxo3) knockout mice immunized with OVA. Using mixed bone marrow chimeras and lymphocyte-repopulated Rag1<sup>-/-</sup> mice proves that wild-type (WT), but not Foxo3-deficient T cells provoke GC B cell maturation and antibody production. Deficiency of Foxo3 inhibits inducible T cell co-stimulator (ICOS)-induced Tfh differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay results suggest that Foxo3 is able to bind to the IL-21 promoter and regulate IL-21 secretion. In conclusion, our study unveils a critical role of Foxo3 in the regulation of Tfh differentiation and IL-21 production. Modulating Foxo3 activity may be beneficial for enhancing or preventing antibody-mediated immune responses."	1
"30979586"	"ULK1 and ULK2 Regulate Stress Granule Disassembly Through Phosphorylation and Activation of VCP/p97.Disturbances in autophagy and stress granule dynamics have been implicated as potential mechanisms underlying inclusion body myopathy (IBM) and related disorders. Yet the roles of core autophagy proteins in IBM and stress granule dynamics remain poorly characterized. Here, we demonstrate that disrupted expression of the core autophagy proteins ULK1 and ULK2 in mice causes a vacuolar myopathy with ubiquitin and TDP-43-positive inclusions; this myopathy is similar to that caused by VCP/p97 mutations, the most common cause of familial IBM. Mechanistically, we show that ULK1/2 localize to stress granules and phosphorylate VCP, thereby increasing VCP's activity and ability to disassemble stress granules. These data suggest that VCP dysregulation and defective stress granule disassembly contribute to IBM-like disease in Ulk1/2-deficient mice. In addition, stress granule disassembly is accelerated by an ULK1/2 agonist, suggesting ULK1/2 as targets for exploiting the higher-order regulation of stress granules for therapeutic intervention of IBM and related disorders."	1
"32610117"	"The Leucine-Rich Repeat Region of CARMIL1 Regulates IL-1-Mediated ERK Activation, MMP Expression, and Collagen Degradation.CARMILs are large, multidomain, membrane-associated proteins that regulate actin assembly and Rho-family GTPases, but their role in inflammatory signaling is not defined. Tandem mass tag mass spectrometry indicated that, in fibroblasts, CARMIL1 associates with interleukin (IL)-1 signaling molecules. Immunoprecipitation of cells transfected with CARMIL1 mutants showed that the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) region of CARMIL1 associates with IL-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK). Knockout of CARMIL1 by CRISPR-Cas9 reduced IL-1-induced ERK activation by 72% and MMP3 expression by 40%. Compared with CARMIL1 wild-type (WT), cells expressing mutant CARMIL1 lacking its LRR domain exhibited 45% lower ERK activation and 40% lower MMP3 expression. In fibroblasts transduced with a cell-permeable, TAT CARMIL1 peptide that competed with IL-1R1 and IRAK binding to the LRR of CARMIL1, collagen degradation was reduced by 43%. As the LRR of CARMIL1 evidently regulates IL-1 signaling, CARMIL1 could become a target for anti-inflammatory drug development."	1
"31402097"	"Osh Proteins Control Nanoscale Lipid Organization Necessary for PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> Synthesis.The plasma membrane (PM) is composed of a complex lipid mixture that forms heterogeneous membrane environments. Yet, how small-scale lipid organization controls physiological events at the PM remains largely unknown. Here, we show that ORP-related Osh lipid exchange proteins are critical for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>], a key regulator of dynamic events at the PM. In real-time assays, we find that unsaturated phosphatidylserine (PS) and sterols, both Osh protein ligands, synergistically stimulate phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) activity. Biophysical FRET analyses suggest an unconventional co-distribution of unsaturated PS and phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) species in sterol-containing membrane bilayers. Moreover, using in vivo imaging approaches and molecular dynamics simulations, we show that Osh protein-mediated unsaturated PI4P and PS membrane lipid organization is sensed by the PIP5K specificity loop. Thus, ORP family members create a nanoscale membrane lipid environment that drives PIP5K activity and PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> synthesis that ultimately controls global PM organization and dynamics."	1
"32049020"	"B Cell Diversification Is Uncoupled from SAP-Mediated Selection Forces in Chronic Germinal Centers within Peyer's Patches.Antibodies secreted within the intestinal tract provide protection from the invasion of microbes into the host tissues. Germinal center (GC) formation in lymph nodes and spleen strictly requires SLAM-associated protein (SAP)-mediated T cell functions; however, it is not known whether this mechanism plays a similar role in mucosal-associated lymphoid tissues. Here, we find that in Peyer's patches (PPs), SAP-mediated T cell help is required for promoting B cell selection in GCs, but not for clonal diversification. PPs of SAP-deficient mice host chronic GCs that are absent in T cell-deficient mice. GC B cells in SAP-deficient mice express AID and Bcl6 and generate plasma cells in proportion to the GC size. Single-cell IgA sequencing analysis reveals that these mice host few diversified clones that were subjected to mild selection forces. These findings demonstrate that T cell-derived help to B cells in PPs includes SAP-dependent and SAP-independent functions."	0
"32023449"	"Human Fc Receptor-like 3 Inhibits Regulatory T Cell Function and Binds Secretory IgA.Human Fc receptor-like 3 (FCRL3) is an orphan receptor expressed by lymphocytes, including regulatory T cells. FCRL3 is implicated in several autoimmune diseases; however, its function on regulatory T cells is unknown. We discovered that FCRL3 stimulation of regulatory T cells inhibited their suppressive function. Moreover, FCRL3 stimulation induced IL-17, IL-26, and IFNγ production and promoted expression of the Th17-defining transcription factor RORγt without affecting FOXP3 expression. We suggest that FCRL3 engagement mediates a transition of regulatory T cells to a pro-inflammatory Th17-like phenotype. In addition, we identified secretory IgA as a specific FCRL3 ligand. Secretory IgA could serve as an environmental cue for mucosal breaches and locally drive regulatory T cell plasticity to help control infection. Our findings define a mechanism that explains the recognized association of FCRL3 with autoimmune diseases. Targeting FCRL3 to modulate regulatory T cell activity could be exploited to treat both malignancies and autoimmune diseases."	0
"32492419"	"A Dynamic Splicing Program Ensures Proper Synaptic Connections in the Developing Cerebellum.Tight coordination of gene expression in the developing cerebellum is crucial for establishment of neuronal circuits governing motor and cognitive function. However, transcriptional changes alone do not explain all of the switches underlying neuronal differentiation. Here we unveiled a widespread and highly dynamic splicing program that affects synaptic genes in cerebellar neurons. The motifs enriched in modulated exons implicated the splicing factor Sam68 as a regulator of this program. Sam68 controls splicing of exons with weak branchpoints by directly binding near the 3' splice site and competing with U2AF recruitment. Ablation of Sam68 disrupts splicing regulation of synaptic genes associated with neurodevelopmental diseases and impairs synaptic connections and firing of Purkinje cells, resulting in motor coordination defects, ataxia, and abnormal social behavior. These findings uncover an unexpectedly dynamic splicing regulatory network that shapes the synapse in early life and establishes motor and cognitive circuitry in the developing cerebellum."	0
"32234476"	"Cyclopentenone Prostaglandins and Structurally Related Oxidized Lipid Species Instigate and Share Distinct Pro- and Anti-inflammatory Pathways.Oxidized lipids play a critical role in a variety of diseases with two faces: pro- and anti-inflammatory. The molecular mechanisms of this Janus-faced activity remain largely unknown. Here, we have identified that cyclopentenone-containing prostaglandins such as 15d-PGJ2 and structurally related oxidized phospholipid species possess a dual and opposing bioactivity in inflammation, depending on their concentration. Exposure of dendritic cells (DCs)/macrophages to low concentrations of such lipids before Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation instigates an anti-inflammatory response mediated by nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-dependent inhibition of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) activation and downstream targets. By contrast, high concentrations of such lipids upon TLR activation of DCs/macrophages result in inflammatory apoptosis characterized by mitochondrial depolarization and caspase-8-mediated interleukin (IL)-1β maturation independently of Nrf2 and the classical inflammasome pathway. These results uncover unexpected pro- and anti-inflammatory activities of physiologically relevant lipid species generated by enzymatic and non-enzymatic oxidation dependent on their concentration, a phenomenon known as hormesis."	0
"31968264"	"Transcriptional Programming of Human Mechanosensory Neuron Subtypes from Pluripotent Stem Cells.Efficient and homogeneous in vitro generation of peripheral sensory neurons may provide a framework for novel drug screening platforms and disease models of touch and pain. We discover that, by overexpressing NGN2 and BRN3A, human pluripotent stem cells can be transcriptionally programmed to differentiate into a surprisingly uniform culture of cold- and mechano-sensing neurons. Although such a neuronal subtype is not found in mice, we identify molecular evidence for its existence in human sensory ganglia. Combining NGN2 and BRN3A programming with neural crest patterning, we produce two additional populations of sensory neurons, including a specialized touch receptor neuron subtype. Finally, we apply this system to model a rare inherited sensory disorder of touch and proprioception caused by inactivating mutations in PIEZO2. Together, these findings establish an approach to specify distinct sensory neuron subtypes in vitro, underscoring the utility of stem cell technology to capture human-specific features of physiology and disease."	0
"32846136"	"Mitofusin 2 in Macrophages Links Mitochondrial ROS Production, Cytokine Release, Phagocytosis, Autophagy, and Bactericidal Activity.Mitofusin 2 (Mfn2) plays a major role in mitochondrial fusion and in the maintenance of mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum contact sites. Given that macrophages play a major role in inflammation, we studied the contribution of Mfn2 to the activity of these cells. Pro-inflammatory stimuli such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced Mfn2 expression. The use of the Mfn2 and Mfn1 myeloid-conditional knockout (KO) mouse models reveals that Mfn2 but not Mfn1 is required for the adaptation of mitochondrial respiration to stress conditions and for the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) upon pro-inflammatory activation. Mfn2 deficiency specifically impairs the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide. In addition, the lack of Mfn2 but not Mfn1 is associated with dysfunctional autophagy, apoptosis, phagocytosis, and antigen processing. Mfn2<sup>floxed;CreLysM</sup> mice fail to be protected from Listeria, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, or LPS endotoxemia. These results reveal an unexpected contribution of Mfn2 to ROS production and inflammation in macrophages."	0
"32814054"	"Mn<sup>2+</sup> Directly Activates cGAS and Structural Analysis Suggests Mn<sup>2+</sup> Induces a Noncanonical Catalytic Synthesis of 2'3'-cGAMP.DNA binding allosterically activates the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP [cGAMP] synthase) to synthesize 2'3'-cGAMP, using Mg<sup>2+</sup> as the metal cofactor that catalyzes two nucleotidyl-transferring reactions. We previously found that Mn<sup>2+</sup> potentiates cGAS activation, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we report that Mn<sup>2+</sup> directly activates cGAS. Structural analysis reveals that Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS undergoes globally similar conformational changes to DNA-activated cGAS but forms a unique η1 helix to widen the catalytic pocket, allowing substrate entry and cGAMP synthesis. Strikingly, in Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS, the linear intermediates pppGpG and pGpA take an inverted orientation in the active pocket, suggesting a noncanonical but accelerated cGAMP cyclization without substrate flip-over. Moreover, unlike the octahedral coordination around Mg<sup>2+</sup>, the two catalytic Mn<sup>2+</sup> are coordinated by triphosphate moiety of the inverted substrate, independent of the catalytic triad residues. Our findings thus uncover Mn<sup>2+</sup> as a cGAS activator that initiates noncanonical 2'3'-cGAMP synthesis."	1
"31399345"	"RNA 5-Methylcytosine Facilitates the Maternal-to-Zygotic Transition by Preventing Maternal mRNA Decay.The maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT) is a conserved and fundamental process during which the maternal environment is converted to an environment of embryonic-driven development through dramatic reprogramming. However, how maternally supplied transcripts are dynamically regulated during MZT remains largely unknown. Herein, through genome-wide profiling of RNA 5-methylcytosine (m<sup>5</sup>C) modification in zebrafish early embryos, we found that m<sup>5</sup>C-modified maternal mRNAs display higher stability than non-m<sup>5</sup>C-modified mRNAs during MZT. We discovered that Y-box binding protein 1 (Ybx1) preferentially recognizes m<sup>5</sup>C-modified mRNAs through π-π interactions with a key residue, Trp45, in Ybx1's cold shock domain (CSD), which plays essential roles in maternal mRNA stability and early embryogenesis of zebrafish. Together with the mRNA stabilizer Pabpc1a, Ybx1 promotes the stability of its target mRNAs in an m<sup>5</sup>C-dependent manner. Our study demonstrates an unexpected mechanism of RNA m<sup>5</sup>C-regulated maternal mRNA stabilization during zebrafish MZT, highlighting the critical role of m<sup>5</sup>C mRNA modification in early development."	1
"32726629"	"Dysregulation of the Synaptic Cytoskeleton in the PFC Drives Neural Circuit Pathology, Leading to Social Dysfunction.Psychiatric disorders are highly heritable pathologies of altered neural circuit functioning. How genetic mutations lead to specific neural circuit abnormalities underlying behavioral disruptions, however, remains unclear. Using circuit-selective transgenic tools and a mouse model of maladaptive social behavior (ArpC3 mutant), we identify a neural circuit mechanism driving dysfunctional social behavior. We demonstrate that circuit-selective knockout (ctKO) of the ArpC3 gene within prefrontal cortical neurons that project to the basolateral amygdala elevates the excitability of the circuit neurons, leading to disruption of socially evoked neural activity and resulting in abnormal social behavior. Optogenetic activation of this circuit in wild-type mice recapitulates the social dysfunction observed in ArpC3 mutant mice. Finally, the maladaptive sociability of ctKO mice is rescued by optogenetically silencing neurons within this circuit. These results highlight a mechanism of how a gene-to-neural circuit interaction drives altered social behavior, a common phenotype of several psychiatric disorders."	0
"32826337"	"Withdrawal: Leptin induces CD40 expression through the activation of Akt in murine dendritic cells."	0
"32482893"	"A-kinase-anchoring protein 1 (dAKAP1)-based signaling complexes coordinate local protein synthesis at the mitochondrial surface.Compartmentalization of macromolecules is a ubiquitous molecular mechanism that drives numerous cellular functions. The appropriate organization of enzymes in space and time enables the precise transmission and integration of intracellular signals. Molecular scaffolds constrain signaling enzymes to influence the regional modulation of these physiological processes. Mitochondrial targeting of protein kinases and protein phosphatases provides a means to locally control the phosphorylation status and action of proteins on the surface of this organelle. Dual-specificity protein kinase A anchoring protein 1 (dAKAP1) is a multivalent binding protein that targets protein kinase A (PKA), RNAs, and other signaling enzymes to the outer mitochondrial membrane. Many AKAPs recruit a diverse set of binding partners that coordinate a broad range of cellular processes. Here, results of MS and biochemical analyses reveal that dAKAP1 anchors additional components, including the ribonucleoprotein granule components La-related protein 4 (LARP4) and polyadenylate-binding protein 1 (PABPC1). Local translation of mRNAs at organelles is a means to spatially control the synthesis of proteins. RNA-Seq data demonstrate that dAKAP1 binds mRNAs encoding proteins required for mitochondrial metabolism, including succinate dehydrogenase. Functional studies suggest that the loss of dAKAP1-RNA interactions reduces mitochondrial electron transport chain activity. Hence, dAKAP1 plays a previously unappreciated role as a molecular interface between second messenger signaling and local protein synthesis machinery."	1
"32579932"	"mTOR Signaling and SREBP Activity Increase FADS2 Expression and Can Activate Sapienate Biosynthesis.Cancer cells display an increased plasticity in their lipid metabolism, which includes the conversion of palmitate to sapienate via the enzyme fatty acid desaturase 2 (FADS2). We find that FADS2 expression correlates with mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) activity across multiple cancer types and is prognostic in some cancer types. Accordingly, activating mTOR signaling by deleting tuberous sclerosis complex 2 (Tsc2) or overexpression of SREBP-1/2 is sufficient to increase FADS2 mRNA expression and sapienate metabolism in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and U87 glioblastoma cells, respectively. Conversely, inhibiting mTOR signaling decreases FADS2 expression and sapienate biosynthesis in MEFs with Tsc2 deletion, HUH7 hepatocellular carcinoma cells, and orthotopic HUH7 liver xenografts. In conclusion, we show that mTOR signaling and SREBP activity are sufficient to activate sapienate metabolism by increasing FADS2 expression. Consequently, targeting mTOR signaling can reduce sapienate metabolism in vivo."	1
"31130363"	"Cyclin F Controls Cell-Cycle Transcriptional Outputs by Directing the Degradation of the Three Activator E2Fs.E2F1, E2F2, and E2F3A, the three activators of the E2F family of transcription factors, are key regulators of the G1/S transition, promoting transcription of hundreds of genes critical for cell-cycle progression. We found that during late S and in G2, the degradation of all three activator E2Fs is controlled by cyclin F, the substrate receptor of 1 of 69 human SCF ubiquitin ligase complexes. E2F1, E2F2, and E2F3A interact with the cyclin box of cyclin F via their conserved N-terminal cyclin binding motifs. In the short term, E2F mutants unable to bind cyclin F remain stable throughout the cell cycle, induce unscheduled transcription in G2 and mitosis, and promote faster entry into the next S phase. However, in the long term, they impair cell fitness. We propose that by restricting E2F activity to the S phase, cyclin F controls one of the main and most critical transcriptional engines of the cell cycle."	1
"32753672"	"Mammalian Atg8 proteins and the autophagy factor IRGM control mTOR and TFEB at a regulatory node critical for responses to pathogens.Autophagy is a homeostatic process with multiple functions in mammalian cells. Here, we show that mammalian Atg8 proteins (mAtg8s) and the autophagy regulator IRGM control TFEB, a transcriptional activator of the lysosomal system. IRGM directly interacted with TFEB and promoted the nuclear translocation of TFEB. An mAtg8 partner of IRGM, GABARAP, interacted with TFEB. Deletion of all mAtg8s or GABARAPs affected the global transcriptional response to starvation and downregulated subsets of TFEB targets. IRGM and GABARAPs countered the action of mTOR as a negative regulator of TFEB. This was suppressed by constitutively active RagB, an activator of mTOR. Infection of macrophages with the membrane-permeabilizing microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis or infection of target cells by HIV elicited TFEB activation in an IRGM-dependent manner. Thus, IRGM and its interactors mAtg8s close a loop between the autophagosomal pathway and the control of lysosomal biogenesis by TFEB, thus ensuring coordinated activation of the two systems that eventually merge during autophagy."	1
"32367047"	"Myeloid PTEN promotes chemotherapy-induced NLRP3-inflammasome activation and antitumour immunity.PTEN is a dual-specificity phosphatase that is frequently mutated in human cancer, and its deficiency in cancer has been associated with therapy resistance and poor survival. Although the intrinsic tumour-suppressor function of PTEN has been well established, evidence of its role in the tumour immune microenvironment is lacking. Here, we show that chemotherapy-induced antitumour immune responses and tumour suppression rely on myeloid-cell PTEN, which is essential for chemotherapy-induced activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and antitumour immunity. PTEN directly interacts with and dephosphorylates NLRP3 to enable NLRP3-ASC interaction, inflammasome assembly and activation. Importantly, supplementation of IL-1β restores chemotherapy sensitivity in mouse myeloid cells with a PTEN deficiency. Clinically, chemotherapy-induced IL-1β production and antitumour immunity in patients with cancer is correlated with PTEN expression in myeloid cells, but not tumour cells. Our results demonstrate that myeloid PTEN can determine chemotherapy responsiveness by promoting NLRP3-dependent antitumour immunity and suggest that myeloid PTEN might be a potential biomarker to predict chemotherapy responses."	1
"32375028"	"Representative Sequencing: Unbiased Sampling of Solid Tumor Tissue.Although thousands of solid tumors have been sequenced to date, a fundamental under-sampling bias is inherent in current methodologies. This is caused by a tissue sample input of fixed dimensions (e.g., 6 mm biopsy), which becomes grossly under-powered as tumor volume scales. Here, we demonstrate representative sequencing (Rep-Seq) as a new method to achieve unbiased tumor tissue sampling. Rep-Seq uses fixed residual tumor material, which is homogenized and subjected to next-generation sequencing. Analysis of intratumor tumor mutation burden (TMB) variability shows a high level of misclassification using current single-biopsy methods, with 20% of lung and 52% of bladder tumors having at least one biopsy with high TMB but low clonal TMB overall. Misclassification rates by contrast are reduced to 2% (lung) and 4% (bladder) when a more representative sampling methodology is used. Rep-Seq offers an improved sampling protocol for tumor profiling, with significant potential for improved clinical utility and more accurate deconvolution of clonal structure."	0
"32553171"	"Lymphocyte-Specific Function of the DNA Polymerase Epsilon Subunit Pole3 Revealed by Neomorphic Alleles.Immunodeficiencies are typically caused by loss-of-function mutations in lymphocyte-specific genes. Occasionally, mutations in ubiquitous general-purpose factors, including those affecting essential components of the DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE) holoenzyme, have cell-type-specific consequences. POLE3, one of the four components of the POLE holoenzyme, features a histone fold domain and a unique acidic C terminus, making it a particularly attractive candidate mediating cell type-specific activities of POLE. Mice lacking Pole3 survive up to late embryonic stages, indicating that this subunit is dispensable for DNA replication. The phenotypes of viable hypomorphic and neomorphic alleles are surprisingly tissue restricted and reveal a stage-specific function of the histone fold domain of Pole3 during T and B cell development. Gradual introduction of positively charged residues into the acidic C terminus leads to peripheral lymphopenia of increasing severity. Our findings serve as a paradigm to understand the molecular basis of cell-type-specific non-replicative functions of the ubiquitous POLE complex."	0
"32294449"	"Cell Metabolic Alterations due to Mcph1 Mutation in Microcephaly.A distinctive feature of neocortical development is the highly coordinated production of different progenitor cell subtypes, which are critical for ensuring adequate neurogenic outcome and the development of normal neocortical size. To further understand the mechanisms that underlie neocortical growth, we focused our studies on the microcephaly gene Mcph1, and we report here that Mcph1 (1) exerts its functions in rapidly dividing apical radial glial cells (aRGCs) during mouse neocortical development stages that precede indirect neurogenesis; (2) is expressed at mitochondria; and (3) controls the proper proliferation and survival of RGCs, potentially through crosstalk with cellular metabolic pathways involving the stimulation of mitochondrial activity via VDAC1/GRP75 and AKT/HK2/VDAC1 and glutaminolysis via ATF4/PCK2. We currently report the description of a MCPH-gene implication in the interplay between bioenergetic pathways and neocortical growth, thus pointing to alterations of cellular metabolic pathways, in particular glutaminolysis, as a possible cause of microcephalic pathogenesis."	1
"32640239"	"Regulatory T Cells Play a Role in a Subset of Idiopathic Preterm Labor/Birth and Adverse Neonatal Outcomes.Regulatory T cells (Tregs) have been exhaustively investigated during early pregnancy; however, their role later in gestation is poorly understood. Herein, we report that functional Tregs are reduced at the maternal-fetal interface in a subset of women with idiopathic preterm labor/birth, which is accompanied by a concomitant increase in Tc17 cells. In mice, depletion of functional Tregs during late gestation induces preterm birth and adverse neonatal outcomes, which are rescued by the adoptive transfer of such cells. Treg depletion does not alter obstetrical parameters in the mother, yet it increases susceptibility to endotoxin-induced preterm birth. The mechanisms whereby depletion of Tregs induces adverse perinatal outcomes involve tissue-specific immune responses and mild systemic maternal inflammation, together with dysregulation of developmental and cellular processes in the placenta, in the absence of intra-amniotic inflammation. These findings provide mechanistic evidence supporting a role for Tregs in the pathophysiology of idiopathic preterm labor/birth and adverse neonatal outcomes."	0
"31914397"	"Structure of the Vesicular Stomatitis Virus L Protein in Complex with Its Phosphoprotein Cofactor.The large (L) proteins of non-segmented, negative-strand RNA viruses are multifunctional enzymes that produce capped, methylated, and polyadenylated mRNA and replicate the viral genome. A phosphoprotein (P), required for efficient RNA-dependent RNA polymerization from the viral ribonucleoprotein (RNP) template, regulates the function and conformation of the L protein. We report the structure of vesicular stomatitis virus L in complex with its P cofactor determined by electron cryomicroscopy at 3.0 Å resolution, enabling us to visualize bound segments of P. The contacts of three P segments with multiple L domains show how P induces a closed, compact, initiation-competent conformation. Binding of P to L positions its N-terminal domain adjacent to a putative RNA exit channel for efficient encapsidation of newly synthesized genomes with the nucleoprotein and orients its C-terminal domain to interact with an RNP template. The model shows that a conserved tryptophan in the priming loop can support the initiating 5' nucleotide."	0
"32817125"	"Finding proteases that make cells go viral.The activation of influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) glycoprotein via cleavage by host cell proteases is essential for viral infectivity, and understanding the mechanisms for HA protein cleavage and how they may differ depending on the biological context is important for the development of flu treatments. However, the HA proteases involved in the activation of many viral strains remain unidentified. In this issue, Harbig <i>et al.</i> identify a repertoire of proteases that cleave HA and determine the proteases' functionality against specific HA glycoproteins."	0
"32668249"	"Pathogenic Tau Causes a Toxic Depletion of Nuclear Calcium.Synaptic activity-induced calcium (Ca<sup>2+</sup>) influx and subsequent propagation into the nucleus is a major way in which synapses communicate with the nucleus to regulate transcriptional programs important for activity-dependent survival and memory formation. Nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup> shapes the transcriptome by regulating cyclic AMP (cAMP) response element-binding protein (CREB). Here, we utilize a Drosophila model of tauopathy and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons from humans with Alzheimer's disease to study the effects of pathogenic tau, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease and related tauopathies, on nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup>. We find that pathogenic tau depletes nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup> and CREB to drive neuronal death, that CREB-regulated genes are over-represented among differentially expressed genes in tau transgenic Drosophila, and that activation of big potassium (BK) channels elevates nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup> and suppresses tau-induced neurotoxicity. Our studies identify nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup> depletion as a mechanism contributing to tau-induced neurotoxicity, adding an important dimension to the calcium hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease."	0
"32160549"	"Neurokinin-1 Receptor Signaling Is Required for Efficient Ca<sup>2+</sup> Flux in T-Cell-Receptor-Activated T Cells.Efficient Ca<sup>2+</sup> flux induced during cognate T cell activation requires signaling the T cell receptor (TCR) and unidentified G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). T cells express the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1R), a GPCR that mediates Ca<sup>2+</sup> flux in excitable and non-excitable cells. However, the role of the NK1R in TCR signaling remains unknown. We show that the NK1R and its agonists, the neuropeptides substance P and hemokinin-1, co-localize within the immune synapse during cognate activation of T cells. Simultaneous TCR and NK1R stimulation is necessary for efficient Ca<sup>2+</sup> flux and Ca<sup>2+</sup>-dependent signaling that sustains the survival of activated T cells and helper 1 (Th1) and Th17 bias. In a model of contact dermatitis, mice with T cells deficient in NK1R or its agonists exhibit impaired cellular immunity, due to high mortality of activated T cells. We demonstrate an effect of the NK1R in T cells that is relevant for immunotherapies based on pro-inflammatory neuropeptides and its receptors."	0
"32755587"	"A Switch in p53 Dynamics Marks Cells That Escape from DSB-Induced Cell Cycle Arrest.Cellular responses to stimuli can evolve over time, resulting in distinct early and late phases in response to a single signal. DNA damage induces a complex response that is largely orchestrated by the transcription factor p53, whose dynamics influence whether a damaged cell will arrest and repair the damage or will initiate cell death. How p53 responses and cellular outcomes evolve in the presence of continuous DNA damage remains unknown. Here, we have found that a subset of cells switches from oscillating to sustained p53 dynamics several days after undergoing damage. The switch results from cell cycle progression in the presence of damaged DNA, which activates the caspase-2-PIDDosome, a complex that stabilizes p53 by inactivating its negative regulator MDM2. This work defines a molecular pathway that is activated if the canonical checkpoints fail to halt mitosis in the presence of damaged DNA."	0
"32433966"	"CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 Axis Mediates Neuroinflammatory Cascade across Schwann Cell-Neuron-Microglia.Neuroinflammation is a crucial mechanism in many neurological disorders. Injury to the peripheral sensory nerves leads to a neuroinflammatory response in the somatosensory pathway, from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) to the spinal cord, contributing to neuropathic pain. How the immune reaction is initiated peripherally and propagated to the spinal cord remains less clear. Here, we find that ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), highly expressed in Schwann cells, mediates neuroinflammatory response through the activating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and inducing interleukin 6 (IL-6) in sensory neurons. Cntf deficiency attenuates neuroinflammation in DRG and the spinal cord with alleviated pain post-injury. Recombinant CNTF applied to the sensory nerves recapitulates neuroinflammation in the DRG and spinal cord, with consequent pain development. We delineate the CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 axis in mediating the onset and progression of the inflammatory cascade from the periphery to the spinal cord with therapeutic implications for neuropathic pain."	1
"32814037"	"Species-Specific Evolution of Ebola Virus during Replication in Human and Bat Cells.Ebola virus (EBOV) causes a severe, often fatal disease in humans and nonhuman primates. Within the past decade, EBOV has caused two large and difficult-to-control outbreaks, one of which recently ended in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Bats are the likely reservoir of EBOV, but little is known of their relationship with the virus. We perform serial passages of EBOV in human and bat cells and use circular sequencing to compare the short-term evolution of the virus. Virus populations passaged in bat cells have sequence markers indicative of host RNA editing enzyme activity, including evidence for ADAR editing of the EBOV glycoprotein. Multiple regions in the EBOV genome appear to have undergone adaptive evolution when passaged in bat and human cells. Individual mutated viruses are rescued and characterized. Our results provide insight into the host species-specific evolution of EBOV and highlight the adaptive flexibility of the virus."	0
"32647014"	"Lysines in the lyase active site of DNA polymerase β destabilize nonspecific DNA binding, facilitating searching and DNA gap recognition.DNA polymerase (pol) β catalyzes two reactions at DNA gaps generated during base excision repair, gap-filling DNA synthesis and lyase-dependent 5´-end deoxyribose phosphate removal. The lyase domain of pol β has been proposed to function in DNA gap recognition and to facilitate DNA scanning during substrate search. However, the mechanisms and molecular interactions used by pol β for substrate search and recognition are not clear. To provide insight into this process, a comparison was made of the DNA binding affinities of WT pol β, pol λ, and pol μ, and several variants of pol β, for 1-nt-gap-containing and undamaged DNA. Surprisingly, this analysis revealed that mutation of three lysine residues in the lyase active site of pol β, 35, 68, and 72, to alanine (pol β KΔ3A) increased the binding affinity for nonspecific DNA ∼11-fold compared with that of the WT. WT pol μ, lacking homologous lysines, displayed nonspecific DNA binding behavior similar to that of pol β KΔ3A, in line with previous data demonstrating both enzymes were deficient in processive searching. In fluorescent microscopy experiments using mouse fibroblasts deficient in PARP-1, the ability of pol β KΔ3A to localize to sites of laser-induced DNA damage was strongly decreased compared with that of WT pol β. These data suggest that the three lysines in the lyase active site destabilize pol β when bound to DNA nonspecifically, promoting DNA scanning and providing binding specificity for gapped DNA."	0
"32846132"	"Atrial Natriuretic Peptide Orchestrates a Coordinated Physiological Response to Fuel Non-shivering Thermogenesis.Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is a cardiac hormone controlling blood volume and pressure in mammals. It is still unclear whether ANP controls cold-induced thermogenesis in vivo. Here, we show that acute cold exposure induces cardiac ANP secretion in mice and humans. Genetic inactivation of ANP promotes cold intolerance and suppresses half of cold-induced brown adipose tissue (BAT) activation in mice. While white adipocytes are resistant to ANP-mediated lipolysis at thermoneutral temperature in mice, cold exposure renders white adipocytes fully responsive to ANP to activate lipolysis and a thermogenic program, a physiological response that is dramatically suppressed in ANP null mice. ANP deficiency also blunts liver triglycerides and glycogen metabolism, thus impairing fuel availability for BAT thermogenesis. ANP directly increases mitochondrial uncoupling and thermogenic gene expression in human white and brown adipocytes. Together, these results indicate that ANP is a major physiological trigger of BAT thermogenesis upon cold exposure in mammals."	0
"32521276"	"Unique and Shared Roles for Histone H3K36 Methylation States in Transcription Regulation Functions.Set2 co-transcriptionally methylates lysine 36 of histone H3 (H3K36), producing mono-, di-, and trimethylation (H3K36me1/2/3). These modifications recruit or repel chromatin effector proteins important for transcriptional fidelity, mRNA splicing, and DNA repair. However, it was not known whether the different methylation states of H3K36 have distinct biological functions. Here, we use engineered forms of Set2 that produce different lysine methylation states to identify unique and shared functions for H3K36 modifications. Although H3K36me1/2 and H3K36me3 are functionally redundant in many SET2 deletion phenotypes, we found that H3K36me3 has a unique function related to Bur1 kinase activity and FACT (facilitates chromatin transcription) complex function. Further, during nutrient stress, either H3K36me1/2 or H3K36me3 represses high levels of histone acetylation and cryptic transcription that arises from within genes. Our findings uncover the potential for the regulation of diverse chromatin functions by different H3K36 methylation states."	0
"30853402"	"The Cargo Receptor NDP52 Initiates Selective Autophagy by Recruiting the ULK Complex to Cytosol-Invading Bacteria.Xenophagy, a selective autophagy pathway that protects the cytosol against bacterial invasion, relies on cargo receptors that juxtapose bacteria and phagophore membranes. Whether phagophores are recruited from a constitutive pool or are generated de novo at prospective cargo remains unknown. Phagophore formation in situ would require recruitment of the upstream autophagy machinery to prospective cargo. Here, we show that, essential for anti-bacterial autophagy, the cargo receptor NDP52 forms a trimeric complex with FIP200 and SINTBAD/NAP1, which are subunits of the autophagy-initiating ULK and the TBK1 kinase complex, respectively. FIP200 and SINTBAD/NAP1 are each recruited independently to bacteria via NDP52, as revealed by selective point mutations in their respective binding sites, but only in their combined presence does xenophagy proceed. Such recruitment of the upstream autophagy machinery by NDP52 reveals how detection of cargo-associated ""eat me"" signals, induction of autophagy, and juxtaposition of cargo and phagophores are integrated in higher eukaryotes."	1
"32017896"	"LARP7-Mediated U6 snRNA Modification Ensures Splicing Fidelity and Spermatogenesis in Mice.U6 snRNA, as an essential component of the catalytic core of the pre-mRNA processing spliceosome, is heavily modified post-transcriptionally, with 2'-O-methylation being most common. The role of these modifications in pre-mRNA splicing as well as their physiological function in mammals have remained largely unclear. Here we report that the La-related protein LARP7 functions as a critical cofactor for 2'-O-methylation of U6 in mouse male germ cells. Mechanistically, LARP7 promotes U6 loading onto box C/D snoRNP, facilitating U6 2'-O-methylation by box C/D snoRNP. Importantly, ablation of LARP7 in the male germline causes defective U6 2'-O-methylation, massive alterations in pre-mRNA splicing, and spermatogenic failure in mice, which can be rescued by ectopic expression of wild-type LARP7 but not an U6-loading-deficient mutant LARP7. Our data uncover a novel role of LARP7 in regulating U6 2'-O-methylation and demonstrate the functional requirement of such modification for splicing fidelity and spermatogenesis in mice."	1
"32610124"	"Mapping of Influenza Virus RNA-RNA Interactions Reveals a Flexible Network.Selective assembly of influenza virus segments into virions is proposed to be mediated through intersegmental RNA-RNA interactions. Here, we developed a method called 2CIMPL that includes proximity ligation under native conditions to identify genome-wide RNA duplexes. Interactions between all eight segments were observed at multiple sites along a given segment and are concentrated at hotspots. Furthermore, synonymous nucleotide changes in a hotspot decreased the formation of RNA-RNA interactions at this site and resulted in a genome-wide rearrangement without a loss in replicative fitness. These results indicate that the viral RNA interaction network is flexible to account for nucleotide evolution. Moreover, comparative analysis of RNA-RNA interaction sites with viral nucleoprotein (NP) binding to the genome revealed that RNA junctions can also occur adjacent to NP peaks, suggesting that NP association does not exclude RNA duplex formation. Overall, 2CIMPL is a versatile technique to map in vivo RNA-RNA interactions."	0
"32320660"	"The Asymmetric Expression of SAUR Genes Mediated by ARF7/19 Promotes the Gravitropism and Phototropism of Plant Hypocotyls.The asymmetric distribution of auxin leads to the bending growth of hypocotyls during gravitropic and phototropic responses, but the signaling events downstream of auxin remain unclear. Here, we identify many SAUR genes showing asymmetric expression in soybean hypocotyls during gravistimulation and then study their homologs in Arabidopsis. SAUR19 subfamily genes have asymmetric expression in Arabidopsis hypocotyls during gravitropic and phototropic responses, induced by the lateral redistribution of auxin. Both the mutation of SAUR19 subfamily genes and the ectopic expression of SAUR19 weaken these tropic responses, indicating the critical role of their asymmetric expression. The auxin-responsive transcription factor ARF7 may directly bind the SAUR19 promoter and activate SAUR19 expression asymmetrically in tropic responses. Taken together, our results reveal that a gravity- or light-triggered asymmetric auxin distribution induces the asymmetric expression of SAUR19 subfamily genes by ARF7 and ARF19 in the hypocotyls, which leads to bending growth during gravitropic and phototropic responses."	1
"31629659"	"KDM3A Senses Oxygen Availability to Regulate PGC-1α-Mediated Mitochondrial Biogenesis.Hypoxia, which occurs during tumor growth, triggers complex adaptive responses in which peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α) plays a critical role in mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. However, how PGC-1α is regulated in response to oxygen availability remains unclear. We demonstrated that lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) binds to PGC-1α and demethylates monomethylated lysine (K) 224 of PGC-1α under normoxic conditions. Hypoxic stimulation inhibits KDM3A, which has a high K<sub>M</sub> of oxygen for its activity, and enhances PGC-1α K224 monomethylation. This modification decreases PGC-1α's activity required for NRF1- and NRF2-dependent transcriptional regulation of TFAM, TFB1M, and TFB2M, resulting in reduced mitochondrial biogenesis. Expression of PGC-1α K224R mutant significantly increases mitochondrial biogenesis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and tumor cell apoptosis under hypoxia and inhibits brain tumor growth in mice. This study revealed that PGC-1α monomethylation, which is dependent on oxygen availability-regulated KDM3A, plays a critical role in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis."	1
"31968249"	"The Mitochondrial Protein MAVS Stabilizes p53 to Suppress Tumorigenesis.Recent reports have shown the critical role of the mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS) protein in virus-induced apoptosis, but the involvement of MAVS in tumorigenesis is still poorly understood. Herein, we report that MAVS is a key regulator of p53 activation and is critical for protecting against tumorigenesis. We find that MAVS promotes p53-dependent cell death in response to DNA damage. MAVS interacts with p53 and mediates p53 mitochondrial recruitment under genotoxic stress. Mechanistically, MAVS inhibits p53 ubiquitination by blocking the formation of the p53-murine double-minute 2 (MDM2) complex, leading to the stabilization of p53. Notably, compared with their wild-type littermates, MAVS knockout mice display decreased resistance to azoxymethane (AOM) or AOM/dextran sulfate sodium salt (DSS)-induced colon cancer. MAVS expression is significantly downregulated in human colon cancer tissues. These results unveil roles for MAVS in DNA damage response and tumor suppression."	1
"32375027"	"Systematic Analysis of Targets of Pumilio-Mediated mRNA Decay Reveals that PUM1 Repression by DNA Damage Activates Translesion Synthesis.RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play a pivotal role in gene expression by modulating the stability of transcripts. However, the identification of degradation target mRNAs of RBPs remains difficult. By the combined analysis of transcriptome-wide mRNA stabilities and the binding of mRNAs to human Pumilio 1 (PUM1), we identify 48 mRNAs that both bind to PUM1 and exhibit PUM1-dependent degradation. Analysis of changes in the abundance of PUM1 and its degradation target mRNAs in RNA-seq data indicate that DNA-damaging agents negatively regulate PUM1-mediated mRNA decay. Cells exposed to cisplatin have reduced PUM1 abundance and increased PCNA and UBE2A mRNAs encoding proteins involved in DNA damage tolerance by translesion synthesis (TLS). Cells overexpressing PUM1 exhibit impaired DNA synthesis and TLS and increased sensitivity to the cytotoxic effect of cisplatin. Thus, our method identifies target mRNAs of PUM1-mediated decay and reveals that cells respond to DNA damage by inhibiting PUM1-mediated mRNA decay to activate TLS."	1
