"pmid"	"text"	"hit"
"32580946"	"Muscarinic-dependent phosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor by protein kinase G is mediated by PI3K-AKT-nNOS signaling.Post-translational modifications of proteins involved in calcium handling in myocytes, such as the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2), critically regulate cardiac contractility. Recent studies have suggested that phosphorylation of RyR2 by protein kinase G (PKG) might contribute to the cardioprotective effects of cholinergic stimulation. However, the specific mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. Here, using murine ventricular myocytes, immunoblotting, proximity ligation as-says, and nitric oxide imaging, we report that phosphorylation of Ser-2808 in RyR2 induced by the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol is mediated by a signaling axis comprising phosphoinositide 3-phosphate kinase, Akt Ser/Thr kinase, nitric oxide synthase 1, nitric oxide, soluble guanylate cyclase, cyclic GMP (cGMP), and PKG. We found that this signaling pathway is compartmentalized in myocytes, as it was distinct from atrial natriuretic peptide receptor-cGMP-PKG-RyR2 Ser-2808 signaling and independent of muscarinic-induced phosphorylation of Ser-239 in vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein. These results provide detailed insights into muscarinic-induced PKG signaling and the mediators that regulate cardiac RyR2 phosphorylation critical for cardiovascular function."	1
"32160539"	"Telomerase Repairs Collapsed Replication Forks at Telomeres.Telomeres are difficult-to-replicate sites whereby replication itself may threaten telomere integrity. We investigate, in fission yeast, telomere replication dynamics in telomerase-negative cells to unmask problems associated with telomere replication. Two-dimensional gel analysis reveals that replication of telomeres is severely impaired and correlates with an accumulation of replication intermediates that arises from stalled and collapsed forks. In the absence of telomerase, Rad51, Mre11-Rad50-Nbs1 (MRN) complex, and its co-factor CtIP<sup>Ctp1</sup> become critical to maintain telomeres, indicating that homologous recombination processes these intermediates to facilitate fork restart. We further show that a catalytically dead mutant of telomerase prevents Ku recruitment to telomeres, suggesting that telomerase and Ku both compete for the binding of telomeric-free DNA ends that are likely to originate from a reversed fork. We infer that Ku removal at collapsed telomeric forks allows telomerase to repair broken telomeres, thereby shielding telomeres from homologous recombination."	0
"32527725"	"Mechanistic insights into the dual activities of the single active site of l-lysine oxidase/monooxygenase from <i>Pseudomonas</i> sp. AIU 813.l-Lysine oxidase/monooxygenase (l-LOX/MOG) from <i>Pseudomonas</i> sp. AIU 813 catalyzes the mixed bioconversion of l-amino acids, particularly l-lysine, yielding an amide and carbon dioxide by an oxidative decarboxylation (<i>i.e.</i> apparent monooxygenation), as well as oxidative deamination (hydrolysis of oxidized product), resulting in α-keto acid, hydrogen peroxide (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>), and ammonia. Here, using high-resolution MS and monitoring transient reaction kinetics with stopped-flow spectrophotometry, we identified the products from the reactions of l-lysine and l-ornithine, indicating that besides decarboxylating imino acids (<i>i.e.</i> 5-aminopentanamide from l-lysine), l-LOX/MOG also decarboxylates keto acids (5-aminopentanoic acid from l-lysine and 4-aminobutanoic acid from l-ornithine). The reaction of reduced enzyme and oxygen generated an imino acid and H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>, with no detectable C4a-hydroperoxyflavin. Single-turnover reactions in which l-LOX/MOG was first reduced by l-lysine to form imino acid before mixing with various compounds revealed that under anaerobic conditions, only hydrolysis products are present. Similar results were obtained upon H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> addition after enzyme denaturation. H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> addition to active l-LOX/MOG resulted in formation of more 5-aminopentanoic acid, but not 5-aminopentamide, suggesting that H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> generated from l-LOX/MOG <i>in situ</i> can result in decarboxylation of the imino acid, yielding an amide product, and extra H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> resulted in decarboxylation only of keto acids. Molecular dynamics simulations and detection of charge transfer species suggested that interactions between the substrate and its binding site on l-LOX/MOG are important for imino acid decarboxylation. Structural analysis indicated that the flavoenzyme oxidases catalyzing decarboxylation of an imino acid all share a common plug loop configuration that may facilitate this decarboxylation."	0
"30554948"	"The F-Box Domain-Dependent Activity of EMI1 Regulates PARPi Sensitivity in Triple-Negative Breast Cancers.The BRCA1-BRCA2-RAD51 axis is essential for homologous recombination repair (HRR) and is frequently disrupted in breast cancers. PARP inhibitors (PARPis) are used clinically to treat BRCA-mutated breast tumors. Using a genetic screen, we identified EMI1 as a modulator of PARPi sensitivity in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells. This function requires the F-box domain of EMI1, through which EMI1 assembles a canonical SCF ubiquitin ligase complex that constitutively targets RAD51 for degradation. In response to genotoxic stress, CHK1-mediated phosphorylation of RAD51 counteracts EMI1-dependent degradation by enhancing RAD51's affinity for BRCA2, leading to RAD51 accumulation. Inhibition of RAD51 degradation restores HRR in BRCA1-depleted cells. Human breast cancer samples display an inverse correlation between EMI1 and RAD51 protein levels. A subset of BRCA1-deficient TNBC cells develop resistance to PARPi by downregulating EMI1 and restoring RAD51-dependent HRR. Notably, reconstitution of EMI1 expression reestablishes PARPi sensitivity both in cellular systems and in an orthotopic mouse model."	1
"31704183"	"Tunability of DNA Polymerase Stability during Eukaryotic DNA Replication.Structural and biochemical studies have revealed the basic principles of how the replisome duplicates genomic DNA, but little is known about its dynamics during DNA replication. We reconstitute the 34 proteins needed to form the S. cerevisiae replisome and show how changing local concentrations of the key DNA polymerases tunes the ability of the complex to efficiently recycle these proteins or to dynamically exchange them. Particularly, we demonstrate redundancy of the Pol α-primase DNA polymerase activity in replication and show that Pol α-primase and the lagging-strand Pol δ can be re-used within the replisome to support the synthesis of large numbers of Okazaki fragments. This unexpected malleability of the replisome might allow it to deal with barriers and resource challenges during replication of large genomes."	0
"32553169"	"Proline-Rich Motifs Control G2-CDK Target Phosphorylation and Priming an Anchoring Protein for Polo Kinase Localization.The hydrophobic patch (hp), a docking pocket on cyclins of CDKs (cyclin-dependent kinases), has been thought to accommodate a single short linear motif (SLiM), the ""RxL or Cy"" docking motif. Here we show that hp can bind different motifs with high specificity. We identify a PxxPxF motif that is necessary for G2-cyclin Clb3 function in S. cerevisiae, and that mediates Clb3-Cdk1 phosphorylation of Ypr174c (proposed name: Cdc5 SPB anchor-Csa1) to regulate the localization of Polo kinase Cdc5. Similar motifs exist in other Clb3-Cdk1 targets. Our work completes the set of docking specificities for the four major cyclins: LP, RxL, PxxPxF, and LxF motifs for G1-, S-, G2-, and M-phase cyclins, respectively. Further, we show that variations in motifs can change their specificity for human cyclins. This diversity could provide complexity for the encoding of CDK thresholds to achieve ordered cell-cycle phosphorylation."	0
"32846131"	"Real-Time In-Cell NMR Reveals the Intracellular Modulation of GTP-Bound Levels of RAS.The small guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) RAS serves as a molecular switch in signal transduction, and its mutation and aberrant activation are implicated in tumorigenesis. Here, we perform real-time, in-cell nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analyses of non-farnesylated RAS to measure time courses of the fraction of the active GTP-bound form (fGTP) within cytosol of live mammalian cells. The observed intracellular fGTP is significantly lower than that measured in vitro for wild-type RAS as well as oncogenic mutants, due to both decrease of the guanosine diphosphate (GDP)-GTP exchange rate (k<sub>ex</sub>) and increase of GTP hydrolysis rate (k<sub>hy</sub>). In vitro reconstitution experiments show that highly viscous environments promote a reduction of k<sub>ex</sub>, whereas the increase of k<sub>hy</sub> is stimulated by unidentified cytosolic proteins. This study demonstrates the power of in-cell NMR to directly detect the GTP-bound levels of RAS in mammalian cells, thereby revealing that the k<sub>hy</sub> and k<sub>ex</sub> of RAS are modulated by various intracellular factors."	0
"32492431"	"Cas12a Base Editors Induce Efficient and Specific Editing with Low DNA Damage Response.The advent of base editors (BEs) holds great potential for correcting pathogenic-related point mutations to treat relevant diseases. However, Cas9 nickase (nCas9)-derived BEs lead to DNA double-strand breaks, which can trigger unwanted DNA damage response (DDR). Here, we show that the original version of catalytically dead Cas12a (dCas12a)-conjugated BEs induce a basal level of DNA breaks and minimally activate DDR proteins, including H2AX, ATM, ATR, and p53. By fusing dCas12a with engineered human apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3A (APOBEC3A), we further develop the BEACON (base editing induced by human APOBEC3A and Cas12a without DNA break) system to achieve enhanced deamination efficiency and editing specificity. Efficient C-to-T editing is achieved by BEACON in mammalian cells at levels comparable to AncBE4max, with only low levels of DDR and minimal RNA off-target mutations. Importantly, BEACON induces in vivo base editing in mouse embryos, and targeted C-to-T conversions are detected in F0 mice."	0
"32814054"	"Mn<sup>2+</sup> Directly Activates cGAS and Structural Analysis Suggests Mn<sup>2+</sup> Induces a Noncanonical Catalytic Synthesis of 2'3'-cGAMP.DNA binding allosterically activates the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP [cGAMP] synthase) to synthesize 2'3'-cGAMP, using Mg<sup>2+</sup> as the metal cofactor that catalyzes two nucleotidyl-transferring reactions. We previously found that Mn<sup>2+</sup> potentiates cGAS activation, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we report that Mn<sup>2+</sup> directly activates cGAS. Structural analysis reveals that Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS undergoes globally similar conformational changes to DNA-activated cGAS but forms a unique η1 helix to widen the catalytic pocket, allowing substrate entry and cGAMP synthesis. Strikingly, in Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS, the linear intermediates pppGpG and pGpA take an inverted orientation in the active pocket, suggesting a noncanonical but accelerated cGAMP cyclization without substrate flip-over. Moreover, unlike the octahedral coordination around Mg<sup>2+</sup>, the two catalytic Mn<sup>2+</sup> are coordinated by triphosphate moiety of the inverted substrate, independent of the catalytic triad residues. Our findings thus uncover Mn<sup>2+</sup> as a cGAS activator that initiates noncanonical 2'3'-cGAMP synthesis."	1
"31604602"	"Cas9 Allosteric Inhibition by the Anti-CRISPR Protein AcrIIA6.In the arms race against bacteria, bacteriophages have evolved diverse anti-CRISPR proteins (Acrs) that block CRISPR-Cas immunity. Acrs play key roles in the molecular coevolution of bacteria with their predators, use a variety of mechanisms of action, and provide tools to regulate Cas-based genome manipulation. Here, we present structural and functional analyses of AcrIIA6, an Acr from virulent phages, exploring its unique anti-CRISPR action. Our cryo-EM structures and functional data of AcrIIA6 binding to Streptococcus thermophilus Cas9 (St1Cas9) show that AcrIIA6 acts as an allosteric inhibitor and induces St1Cas9 dimerization. AcrIIA6 reduces St1Cas9 binding affinity for DNA and prevents DNA binding within cells. The PAM and AcrIIA6 recognition sites are structurally close and allosterically linked. Mechanistically, AcrIIA6 affects the St1Cas9 conformational dynamics associated with PAM binding. Finally, we identify a natural St1Cas9 variant resistant to AcrIIA6 illustrating Acr-driven mutational escape and molecular diversification of Cas9 proteins."	0
"32294449"	"Cell Metabolic Alterations due to Mcph1 Mutation in Microcephaly.A distinctive feature of neocortical development is the highly coordinated production of different progenitor cell subtypes, which are critical for ensuring adequate neurogenic outcome and the development of normal neocortical size. To further understand the mechanisms that underlie neocortical growth, we focused our studies on the microcephaly gene Mcph1, and we report here that Mcph1 (1) exerts its functions in rapidly dividing apical radial glial cells (aRGCs) during mouse neocortical development stages that precede indirect neurogenesis; (2) is expressed at mitochondria; and (3) controls the proper proliferation and survival of RGCs, potentially through crosstalk with cellular metabolic pathways involving the stimulation of mitochondrial activity via VDAC1/GRP75 and AKT/HK2/VDAC1 and glutaminolysis via ATF4/PCK2. We currently report the description of a MCPH-gene implication in the interplay between bioenergetic pathways and neocortical growth, thus pointing to alterations of cellular metabolic pathways, in particular glutaminolysis, as a possible cause of microcephalic pathogenesis."	1
"32636305"	"Two highly related odorant receptors specifically detect α-bile acid pheromones in sea lamprey (<i>Petromyzon marinus</i>).Pheromones play critical roles in habitat identification and reproductive behavior synchronization in the sea lamprey (<i>Petromyzon marinus</i>). The bile acid 3-keto petromyzonol sulfate (3kPZS) is a major component of the sex pheromone mixture from male sea lamprey that induces specific olfactory and behavioral responses in conspecific individuals. Olfactory receptors interact directly with pheromones, which is the first step in their detection, but identifying the cognate receptors of specific pheromones is often challenging. Here, we deorphanized two highly related odorant receptors (ORs), OR320a and OR320b, of <i>P. marinus</i> that respond to 3kPZS. In a heterologous expression system coupled to a cAMP-responsive CRE-luciferase, OR320a and OR320b specifically responded to C<sub>24</sub> 5α-bile acids, and both receptors were activated by the same set of 3kPZS analogs. OR320a displayed larger responses to all 3kPZS analogs than did OR320b. This difference appeared to be largely determined by a single amino acid residue, Cys-79<sup>2.56</sup>, the C-terminal sixth residue relative to the most conserved residue in the second transmembrane domain (2.56) of OR320a. This region of TM2 residues 2.56-2.60 apparently is critical for the detection of steroid compounds by odorant receptors in lamprey, zebrafish, and humans. Finally, we identified OR320 orthologs in Japanese lamprey (<i>Lethenteron camtschaticum</i>), suggesting that the OR320 family may be widely present in lamprey species and that OR320 may be under purifying selection. Our results provide a system to examine the origin of olfactory steroid detection in vertebrates and to define a highly conserved molecular mechanism for steroid-ligand detection by G protein-coupled receptors."	0
"32561545"	"Human RTEL1 associates with Poldip3 to facilitate responses to replication stress and R-loop resolution.RTEL1 helicase is a component of DNA repair and telomere maintenance machineries. While RTEL1's role in DNA replication is emerging, how RTEL1 preserves genomic stability during replication remains elusive. Here we used a range of proteomic, biochemical, cell, and molecular biology and gene editing approaches to provide further insights into potential role(s) of RTEL1 in DNA replication and genome integrity maintenance. Our results from complementary human cell culture models established that RTEL1 and the Polδ subunit Poldip3 form a complex and are/function mutually dependent in chromatin binding after replication stress. Loss of RTEL1 and Poldip3 leads to marked R-loop accumulation that is confined to sites of active replication, enhances endogenous replication stress, and fuels ensuing genomic instability. The impact of depleting RTEL1 and Poldip3 is epistatic, consistent with our proposed concept of these two proteins operating in a shared pathway involved in DNA replication control under stress conditions. Overall, our data highlight a previously unsuspected role of RTEL1 and Poldip3 in R-loop suppression at genomic regions where transcription and replication intersect, with implications for human diseases including cancer."	1
"30901564"	"MST1 Negatively Regulates TNFα-Induced NF-κB Signaling through Modulating LUBAC Activity.The nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathway plays a central role in inflammatory and immune responses, with aberrant activation of NF-κB signaling being implicated in various human disorders. Here, we show that mammalian ste20-like kinase 1 (MST1) is a previously unrecognized component of the tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) receptor 1 signaling complex (TNF-RSC) and attenuates TNFα-induced NF-κB signaling. Genetic ablation of MST1 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and bone marrow-derived macrophages potentiated the TNFα-induced increase in IκB kinase (IKK) activity, as well as the expression of NF-κB target genes. TNFα induced the recruitment of MST1 to TNF-RSC and its interaction with HOIP, the catalytic component of the E3 ligase linear ubiquitin assembly complex (LUBAC). Furthermore, MST1 activated in response to TNFα stimulation mediates the phosphorylation of HOIP and thereby inhibited LUBAC-dependent linear ubiquitination of NEMO/IKKγ. Together, our findings suggest that MST1 negatively regulates TNFα-induced NF-κB signaling by targeting LUBAC."	1
"32668239"	"The Apparent Requirement for Protein Synthesis during G2 Phase Is due to Checkpoint Activation.Protein synthesis inhibitors (e.g., cycloheximide) block mitotic entry, suggesting that cell cycle progression requires protein synthesis until right before mitosis. However, cycloheximide is also known to activate p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), which can delay mitotic entry through a G2/M checkpoint. Here, we ask whether checkpoint activation or a requirement for protein synthesis is responsible for the cycloheximide effect. We find that p38 inhibitors prevent cycloheximide-treated cells from arresting in G2 phase and that G2 duration is normal in approximately half of these cells. The Wee1 inhibitor MK-1775 and Wee1/Myt1 inhibitor PD0166285 also prevent cycloheximide from blocking mitotic entry, raising the possibility that Wee1 and/or Myt1 mediate the cycloheximide-induced G2 arrest. Thus, protein synthesis during G2 phase is not required for mitotic entry, at least when the p38 checkpoint pathway is abrogated. However, M phase progression is delayed in cycloheximide-plus-kinase-inhibitor-treated cells, emphasizing the different requirements of protein synthesis for timely entry and completion of mitosis."	1
"31543423"	"Transient Hysteresis in CDK4/6 Activity Underlies Passage of the Restriction Point in G1.Cells escape the need for mitogens at a restriction point several hours before entering S phase. The restriction point has been proposed to result from CDK4/6 initiating partial Rb phosphorylation to trigger a bistable switch whereby cyclin E-CDK2 and Rb mutually reinforce each other to induce Rb hyperphosphorylation. Here, using single-cell analysis, we unexpectedly found that cyclin E/A-CDK activity can only maintain Rb hyperphosphorylation starting at the onset of S phase and that CDK4/6 activity, but not cyclin E/A-CDK activity, is required to hyperphosphorylate Rb throughout G1 phase. Mitogen removal in G1 results in a gradual loss of CDK4/6 activity with a high likelihood of cells sustaining Rb hyperphosphorylation until S phase, at which point cyclin E/A-CDK activity takes over. Thus, it is short-term memory, or transient hysteresis, in CDK4/6 activity following mitogen removal that sustains Rb hyperphosphorylation, demonstrating a probabilistic rather than an irreversible molecular mechanism underlying the restriction point."	1
"32160531"	"The Dm-Myb Oncoprotein Contributes to Insulator Function and Stabilizes Repressive H3K27me3 PcG Domains.Drosophila Myb (Dm-Myb) encodes a protein that plays a key role in regulation of mitotic phase genes. Here, we further refine its role in the context of a developing tissue as a potentiator of gene expression required for proper RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) function and efficient H3K4 methylation at promoters. In contrast to its role in gene activation, Myb is also required for repression of many genes, although no specific mechanism for this role has been proposed. We now reveal a critical role for Myb in contributing to insulator function, in part by promoting binding of insulator proteins BEAF-32 and CP190 and stabilizing H3K27me3 Polycomb-group (PcG) domains. In the absence of Myb, H3K27me3 is markedly reduced throughout the genome, leading to H3K4me3 spreading and gene derepression. Finally, Myb is enriched at boundaries that demarcate chromatin environments, including chromatin loop anchors. These results reveal functions of Myb that extend beyond transcriptional regulation."	0
"30595435"	"Condensin-Dependent Chromatin Compaction Represses Transcription Globally during Quiescence.Quiescence is a stress-resistant state in which cells reversibly exit the cell cycle and suspend most processes. Quiescence is essential for stem cell maintenance, and its misregulation is implicated in tumor formation. One of the hallmarks of quiescent cells is highly condensed chromatin. Because condensed chromatin often correlates with transcriptional silencing, it has been hypothesized that chromatin compaction represses transcription during quiescence. However, the technology to test this model by determining chromatin structure within cells at gene resolution has not previously been available. Here, we use Micro-C XL to map chromatin contacts at single-nucleosome resolution genome-wide in quiescent Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. We describe chromatin domains on the order of 10-60 kilobases that, only in quiescent cells, are formed by condensin-mediated loops. Condensin depletion prevents the compaction of chromatin within domains and leads to widespread transcriptional de-repression. Finally, we demonstrate that condensin-dependent chromatin compaction is conserved in quiescent human fibroblasts."	0
"32017896"	"LARP7-Mediated U6 snRNA Modification Ensures Splicing Fidelity and Spermatogenesis in Mice.U6 snRNA, as an essential component of the catalytic core of the pre-mRNA processing spliceosome, is heavily modified post-transcriptionally, with 2'-O-methylation being most common. The role of these modifications in pre-mRNA splicing as well as their physiological function in mammals have remained largely unclear. Here we report that the La-related protein LARP7 functions as a critical cofactor for 2'-O-methylation of U6 in mouse male germ cells. Mechanistically, LARP7 promotes U6 loading onto box C/D snoRNP, facilitating U6 2'-O-methylation by box C/D snoRNP. Importantly, ablation of LARP7 in the male germline causes defective U6 2'-O-methylation, massive alterations in pre-mRNA splicing, and spermatogenic failure in mice, which can be rescued by ectopic expression of wild-type LARP7 but not an U6-loading-deficient mutant LARP7. Our data uncover a novel role of LARP7 in regulating U6 2'-O-methylation and demonstrate the functional requirement of such modification for splicing fidelity and spermatogenesis in mice."	1
"32780989"	"GIT/PIX Condensates Are Modular and Ideal for Distinct Compartmentalized Cell Signaling.Enzymes or enzyme complexes can be concentrated in different cellular loci to modulate distinct functional processes in response to specific signals. How cells condense and compartmentalize enzyme complexes for spatiotemporally distinct cellular events is not well understood. Here we discover that specific and tight association of GIT1 and β-Pix, a pair of GTPase regulatory enzymes, leads to phase separation of the complex without additional scaffolding molecules. GIT1/β-Pix condensates are modular in nature and can be positioned at distinct cellular compartments, such as neuronal synapses, focal adhesions, and cell-cell junctions, by upstream adaptors. Guided by the structure of the GIT/PIX complex, we specifically probed the role of phase separation of the enzyme complex in cell migration and synapse formation. Our study suggests that formation of modular enzyme complex condensates via phase separation can dynamically concentrate limited quantities of enzymes to distinct cellular compartments for specific and optimal signaling."	1
"32197065"	"ATF7-Dependent Epigenetic Changes Are Required for the Intergenerational Effect of a Paternal Low-Protein Diet.Paternal dietary conditions may contribute to metabolic disorders in offspring. We have analyzed the role of the stress-dependent epigenetic regulator cyclic AMP-dependent transcription factor 7 (ATF7) in paternal low-protein diet (pLPD)-induced gene expression changes in mouse liver. Atf7<sup>+/-</sup> mutations cause an offspring phenotype similar to that caused by pLPD, and the effect of pLPD almost vanished when paternal Atf7<sup>+/-</sup> mice were used. ATF7 binds to the promoter regions of ∼2,300 genes, including cholesterol biosynthesis-related and tRNA genes in testicular germ cells (TGCs). LPD induces ATF7 phosphorylation by p38 via reactive oxygen species (ROS) in TGCs. This leads to the release of ATF7 and a decrease in histone H3K9 dimethylation (H3K9me2) on its target genes. These epigenetic changes are maintained and induce expression of some tRNA fragments in spermatozoa. These results indicate that LPD-induced and ATF7-dependent epigenetic changes in TGCs play an important role in paternal diet-induced metabolic reprograming in offspring."	0
"32049025"	"Experience-Dependent Development and Maintenance of Binocular Neurons in the Mouse Visual Cortex.The development of neuronal circuits requires both hard-wired gene expression and experience-dependent plasticity. Sensory processing, such as binocular vision, is especially sensitive to perturbations of experience. We investigated the experience-dependent development of the binocular visual cortex at single-cell resolution by using two-photon calcium imaging in awake mice. At eye-opening, the majority of visually responsive neurons are monocular. Binocular neurons emerge later with visual experience and acquire distinct visual response properties. Surprisingly, rather than mirroring the effects of visual deprivation, mice that lack the plasticity gene Arc show increased numbers of binocular neurons and a shift in ocular dominance during development. Strikingly, acutely removing Arc in the adult binocular visual cortex also increases the number of binocular neurons, suggesting that the maintenance of binocular circuits requires ongoing plasticity. Thus, experience-dependent plasticity is critical for the development and maintenance of circuits required to process binocular vision."	0
"32362314"	"A Multibasic Cleavage Site in the Spike Protein of SARS-CoV-2 Is Essential for Infection of Human Lung Cells.The pandemic coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 threatens public health worldwide. The viral spike protein mediates SARS-CoV-2 entry into host cells and harbors a S1/S2 cleavage site containing multiple arginine residues (multibasic) not found in closely related animal coronaviruses. However, the role of this multibasic cleavage site in SARS-CoV-2 infection is unknown. Here, we report that the cellular protease furin cleaves the spike protein at the S1/S2 site and that cleavage is essential for S-protein-mediated cell-cell fusion and entry into human lung cells. Moreover, optimizing the S1/S2 site increased cell-cell, but not virus-cell, fusion, suggesting that the corresponding viral variants might exhibit increased cell-cell spread and potentially altered virulence. Our results suggest that acquisition of a S1/S2 multibasic cleavage site was essential for SARS-CoV-2 infection of humans and identify furin as a potential target for therapeutic intervention."	0
"32937123"	"Cell-Type- and Brain-Region-Resolved Mouse Brain Lipidome.Gene and protein expression data provide useful resources for understanding brain function, but little is known about the lipid composition of the brain. Here, we perform quantitative shotgun lipidomics, which enables a cell-type-resolved assessment of the mouse brain lipid composition. We quantify around 700 lipid species and evaluate lipid features including fatty acyl chain length, hydroxylation, and number of acyl chain double bonds, thereby identifying cell-type- and brain-region-specific lipid profiles in adult mice, as well as in aged mice, in apolipoprotein-E-deficient mice, in a model of Alzheimer's disease, and in mice fed different diets. We also integrate lipid with protein expression profiles to predict lipid pathways enriched in specific cell types, such as fatty acid β-oxidation in astrocytes and sphingolipid metabolism in microglia. This resource complements existing brain atlases of gene and protein expression and may be useful for understanding the role of lipids in brain function."	0
"32661198"	"The first DEP domain of the RhoGEF P-Rex1 autoinhibits activity and contributes to membrane binding.Phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP<sub>3</sub>)-dependent Rac exchanger 1 (P-Rex1) catalyzes the exchange of GDP for GTP on Rac GTPases, thereby triggering changes in the actin cytoskeleton and in transcription. Its overexpression is highly correlated with the metastasis of certain cancers. P-Rex1 recruitment to the plasma membrane and its activity are regulated via interactions with heterotrimeric Gβγ subunits, PIP<sub>3</sub>, and protein kinase A (PKA). Deletion analysis has further shown that domains C-terminal to its catalytic Dbl homology (DH) domain confer autoinhibition. Among these, the first dishevelled, Egl-10, and pleckstrin domain (DEP1) remains to be structurally characterized. DEP1 also harbors the primary PKA phosphorylation site, suggesting that an improved understanding of this region could substantially increase our knowledge of P-Rex1 signaling and open the door to new selective chemotherapeutics. Here we show that the DEP1 domain alone can autoinhibit activity in context of the DH/PH-DEP1 fragment of P-Rex1 and interacts with the DH/PH domains in solution. The 3.1 Å crystal structure of DEP1 features a domain swap, similar to that observed previously in the Dvl2 DEP domain, involving an exposed basic loop that contains the PKA site. Using purified proteins, we show that although DEP1 phosphorylation has no effect on the activity or solution conformation of the DH/PH-DEP1 fragment, it inhibits binding of the DEP1 domain to liposomes containing phosphatidic acid. Thus, we propose that PKA phosphorylation of the DEP1 domain hampers P-Rex1 binding to negatively charged membranes in cells, freeing the DEP1 domain to associate with and inhibit the DH/PH module."	0
"31130364"	"Lysosome Positioning Influences mTORC2 and AKT Signaling.Growth factor signaling is initiated at the plasma membrane and propagated through the cytoplasm for eventual relay to intracellular organelles such as lysosomes. The serine/threonine kinase mTOR participates in growth factor signaling as a component of two multi-subunit complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2. mTORC1 associates with lysosomes, and its activity depends on the positioning of lysosomes within the cytoplasm, although there is no consensus regarding the exact effect of perinuclear versus peripheral distribution. mTORC2 and its substrate kinase AKT have a widespread distribution, but they are thought to act mainly at the plasma membrane. Using cell lines with knockout of components of the lysosome-positioning machinery, we show that perinuclear clustering of lysosomes delays reactivation of not only mTORC1, but also mTORC2 and AKT upon serum replenishment. These experiments demonstrate the existence of pools of mTORC2 and AKT that are sensitive to lysosome positioning."	0
"31445886"	"Regulation of Co-transcriptional Pre-mRNA Splicing by m<sup>6</sup>A through the Low-Complexity Protein hnRNPG.N<sup>6</sup>-methyladenosine (m<sup>6</sup>A) modification occurs co-transcriptionally and impacts pre-mRNA processing; however, the mechanism of co-transcriptional m<sup>6</sup>A-dependent alternative splicing regulation is still poorly understood. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein G (hnRNPG) is an m<sup>6</sup>A reader protein that binds RNA through RRM and Arg-Gly-Gly (RGG) motifs. Here, we show that hnRNPG directly binds to the phosphorylated carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) using RGG motifs in its low-complexity region. Through interactions with the phosphorylated CTD and nascent RNA, hnRNPG associates co-transcriptionally with RNAPII and regulates alternative splicing transcriptome-wide. m<sup>6</sup>A near splice sites in nascent pre-mRNA modulates hnRNPG binding, which influences RNAPII occupancy patterns and promotes exon inclusion. Our results reveal an integrated mechanism of co-transcriptional m<sup>6</sup>A-mediated splicing regulation, in which an m<sup>6</sup>A reader protein uses RGG motifs to co-transcriptionally interact with both RNAPII and m<sup>6</sup>A-modified nascent pre-mRNA to modulate RNAPII occupancy and alternative splicing."	0
"31630969"	"An Early mtUPR: Redistribution of the Nuclear Transcription Factor Rox1 to Mitochondria Protects against Intramitochondrial Proteotoxic Aggregates.The mitochondrial proteome is built mainly by import of nuclear-encoded precursors, which are targeted mostly by cleavable presequences. Presequence processing upon import is essential for proteostasis and survival, but the consequences of dysfunctional protein maturation are unknown. We find that impaired presequence processing causes accumulation of precursors inside mitochondria that form aggregates, which escape degradation and unexpectedly do not cause cell death. Instead, cells survive via activation of a mitochondrial unfolded protein response (mtUPR)-like pathway that is triggered very early after precursor accumulation. In contrast to classical stress pathways, this immediate response maintains mitochondrial protein import, membrane potential, and translation through translocation of the nuclear HMG-box transcription factor Rox1 to mitochondria. Rox1 binds mtDNA and performs a TFAM-like function pivotal for transcription and translation. Induction of early mtUPR provides a reversible stress model to mechanistically dissect the initial steps in mtUPR pathways with the stressTFAM Rox1 as the first line of defense."	0
"32651234"	"The chaperone Hsp70 is a BH3 receptor activated by the pro-apoptotic Bim to stabilize anti-apoptotic clients.The chaperone heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is crucial for avoiding protein misfolding under stress, but is also up-regulated in many kinds of cancers, where its ability to buffer cellular stress prevents apoptosis. Previous research has suggested Hsp70 interacts with pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins, including Bim and Bax. However, a definitive demonstration of this interaction awaits, and insights into the structural basis and molecular mechanism remain unclear. Earlier studies have identified a Bcl-2 homology 3 (BH3) domain present in Bcl-2 family members that engages receptors to stimulate apoptosis. We now show that Hsp70 physically interacts with pro-apoptotic multidomain and BH3-only proteins via a BH3 domain, thereby serving as a novel BH3 receptor, using <i>in vitro</i> fluorescent polarization (FP), isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), and cell-based co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) experiments, <sup>1</sup>H-<sup>15</sup>N-transverse relaxation optimized spectroscopy (TROSY-HSQC), trypsin proteolysis, ATPase activity, and denatured rhodanese aggregation measurements further demonstrated that BimBH3 binds to a novel allosteric site in the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD) of Hsp70, by which Bim acts as a positive co-chaperone to promote the ATPase activity and chaperone functions. A dual role of Hsp70's anti-apoptotic function was revealed that when it keeps Bim in check to inhibit apoptosis, it simultaneously stabilizes oncogenic clients including AKT and Raf-1 with the aid of Bim. Two faces of Bim in cell fate regulation were revealed that in opposite to its well-established pro-apoptotic activator role, Bim could help the folding of oncogenic proteins."	1
"32049004"	"Transcriptional Correlates of Tolerance and Lethality in Mice Predict Ebola Virus Disease Patient Outcomes.Host response to infection is a major determinant of disease severity in Ebola virus disease (EVD), but gene expression programs associated with outcome are poorly characterized. Collaborative Cross (CC) mice develop strain-dependent EVD phenotypes of differential severity, ranging from tolerance to lethality. We screen 10 CC lines and identify clinical, virologic, and transcriptomic features that distinguish tolerant from lethal outcomes. Tolerance is associated with tightly regulated induction of immune and inflammatory responses shortly following infection, as well as reduced inflammatory macrophages and increased antigen-presenting cells, B-1 cells, and γδ T cells. Lethal disease is characterized by suppressed early gene expression and reduced lymphocytes, followed by uncontrolled inflammatory signaling, leading to death. We apply machine learning to predict outcomes with 99% accuracy in mice using transcriptomic profiles. This signature predicts outcomes in a cohort of EVD patients from western Africa with 75% accuracy, demonstrating potential clinical utility."	0
"31805520"	"A unified allosteric/torpedo mechanism for transcriptional termination on human protein-coding genes.The allosteric and torpedo models have been used for 30 yr to explain how transcription terminates on protein-coding genes. The former invokes termination via conformational changes in the transcription complex and the latter proposes that degradation of the downstream product of poly(A) signal (PAS) processing is important. Here, we describe a single mechanism incorporating features of both models. We show that termination is completely abolished by rapid elimination of CPSF73, which causes very extensive transcriptional readthrough genome-wide. This is because CPSF73 functions upstream of modifications to the elongation complex and provides an entry site for the XRN2 torpedo. Rapid depletion of XRN2 enriches these events that we show are underpinned by protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) activity, the inhibition of which extends readthrough in the absence of XRN2. Our results suggest a combined allosteric/torpedo mechanism, in which PP1-dependent slowing down of polymerases over termination regions facilitates their pursuit/capture by XRN2 following PAS processing."	0
"32320654"	"Cellular Importin-α3 Expression Dynamics in the Lung Regulate Antiviral Response Pathways against Influenza A Virus Infection.Importin-α adaptor proteins orchestrate dynamic nuclear transport processes involved in cellular homeostasis. Here, we show that importin-α3, one of the main NF-κB transporters, is the most abundantly expressed classical nuclear transport factor in the mammalian respiratory tract. Importin-α3 promoter activity is regulated by TNF-α-induced NF-κB in a concentration-dependent manner. High-level TNF-α-inducing highly pathogenic avian influenza A viruses (HPAIVs) isolated from fatal human cases harboring human-type polymerase signatures (PB2 627K, 701N) significantly downregulate importin-α3 mRNA expression in primary lung cells. Importin-α3 depletion is restored upon back-mutating the HPAIV polymerase into an avian-type signature (PB2 627E, 701D) that can no longer induce high TNF-α levels. Importin-α3-deficient mice show reduced NF-κB-activated antiviral gene expression and increased influenza lethality. Thus, importin-α3 plays a key role in antiviral immunity against influenza. Lifting the bottleneck in importin-α3 availability in the lung might provide a new strategy to combat respiratory virus infections."	1
"30846317"	"CHP1 Regulates Compartmentalized Glycerolipid Synthesis by Activating GPAT4.Cells require a constant supply of fatty acids to survive and proliferate. Fatty acids incorporate into membrane and storage glycerolipids through a series of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) enzymes, but how these enzymes are regulated is not well understood. Here, using a combination of CRISPR-based genetic screens and unbiased lipidomics, we identified calcineurin B homologous protein 1 (CHP1) as a major regulator of ER glycerolipid synthesis. Loss of CHP1 severely reduces fatty acid incorporation and storage in mammalian cells and invertebrates. Mechanistically, CHP1 binds and activates GPAT4, which catalyzes the initial rate-limiting step in glycerolipid synthesis. GPAT4 activity requires CHP1 to be N-myristoylated, forming a key molecular interface between the two proteins. Interestingly, upon CHP1 loss, the peroxisomal enzyme, GNPAT, partially compensates for the loss of ER lipid synthesis, enabling cell proliferation. Thus, our work identifies a conserved regulator of glycerolipid metabolism and reveals plasticity in lipid synthesis of proliferating cells."	1
"32839551"	"Acetylation-dependent regulation of PD-L1 nuclear translocation dictates the efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.Immunotherapies that target programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and its ligand PD-L1 as well as cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA4) have shown impressive clinical outcomes for multiple tumours. However, only a subset of patients achieves durable responses, suggesting that the mechanisms of the immune checkpoint pathways are not completely understood. Here, we report that PD-L1 translocates from the plasma membrane into the nucleus through interactions with components of the endocytosis and nucleocytoplasmic transport pathways, regulated by p300-mediated acetylation and HDAC2-dependent deacetylation of PD-L1. Moreover, PD-L1 deficiency leads to compromised expression of multiple immune-response-related genes. Genetically or pharmacologically modulating PD-L1 acetylation blocks its nuclear translocation, reprograms the expression of immune-response-related genes and, as a consequence, enhances the anti-tumour response to PD-1 blockade. Thus, our results reveal an acetylation-dependent regulation of PD-L1 nuclear localization that governs immune-response gene expression, and thereby advocate targeting PD-L1 translocation to enhance the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade."	1
"30952515"	"Interleukin-1β Induces mtDNA Release to Activate Innate Immune Signaling via cGAS-STING.Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) is a pleiotropic mediator of inflammation and is produced in response to a wide range of stimuli. During infection, IL-1β production occurs in parallel with the onset of innate antimicrobial defenses, but the contribution of IL-1β signaling to cell-intrinsic immunity is not defined. Here, we report that exogenous IL-1β induces interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) activation in human myeloid, fibroblast, and epithelial cells. IRF3 activation by IL-1β is dependent upon the DNA-sensing pathway adaptor, stimulator of interferon genes (STING), through the recognition of cytosolic mtDNA by cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-AMP synthase (cGAS). IL-1β treatment results in interferon (IFN) production and activation of IFN signaling to direct a potent innate immune response that restricts dengue virus infection. This study identifies a new function for IL-1β in the onset or enhancement of cell-intrinsic immunity, with important implications for cGAS-STING in integrating inflammatory and microbial cues for host defense."	1
"32610117"	"The Leucine-Rich Repeat Region of CARMIL1 Regulates IL-1-Mediated ERK Activation, MMP Expression, and Collagen Degradation.CARMILs are large, multidomain, membrane-associated proteins that regulate actin assembly and Rho-family GTPases, but their role in inflammatory signaling is not defined. Tandem mass tag mass spectrometry indicated that, in fibroblasts, CARMIL1 associates with interleukin (IL)-1 signaling molecules. Immunoprecipitation of cells transfected with CARMIL1 mutants showed that the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) region of CARMIL1 associates with IL-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK). Knockout of CARMIL1 by CRISPR-Cas9 reduced IL-1-induced ERK activation by 72% and MMP3 expression by 40%. Compared with CARMIL1 wild-type (WT), cells expressing mutant CARMIL1 lacking its LRR domain exhibited 45% lower ERK activation and 40% lower MMP3 expression. In fibroblasts transduced with a cell-permeable, TAT CARMIL1 peptide that competed with IL-1R1 and IRAK binding to the LRR of CARMIL1, collagen degradation was reduced by 43%. As the LRR of CARMIL1 evidently regulates IL-1 signaling, CARMIL1 could become a target for anti-inflammatory drug development."	1
"32470318"	"Ectosomal PKM2 Promotes HCC by Inducing Macrophage Differentiation and Remodeling the Tumor Microenvironment.Tumor-derived extracellular vesicles are important mediators of cell-to-cell communication during tumorigenesis. Here, we demonstrated that hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)-derived ectosomes remodel the tumor microenvironment to facilitate HCC progression in an ectosomal PKM2-dependent manner. HCC-derived ectosomal PKM2 induced not only metabolic reprogramming in monocytes but also STAT3 phosphorylation in the nucleus to upregulate differentiation-associated transcription factors, leading to monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation and tumor microenvironment remodeling. In HCC cells, sumoylation of PKM2 induced its plasma membrane targeting and subsequent ectosomal excretion via interactions with ARRDC1. The PKM2-ARRDC1 association in HCC was reinforced by macrophage-secreted cytokines/chemokines in a CCL1-CCR8 axis-dependent manner, further facilitating PKM2 excretion from HCC cells to form a feedforward regulatory loop for tumorigenesis. In the clinic, ectosomal PKM2 was clearly detected in the plasma of HCC patients. This study highlights a mechanism by which ectosomal PKM2 remodels the tumor microenvironment and reveals ectosomal PKM2 as a potential diagnostic marker for HCC."	1
"31586547"	"γ-6-Phosphogluconolactone, a Byproduct of the Oxidative Pentose Phosphate Pathway, Contributes to AMPK Activation through Inhibition of PP2A.The oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (oxiPPP) contributes to cell metabolism through not only the production of metabolic intermediates and reductive NADPH but also inhibition of LKB1-AMPK signaling by ribulose-5-phosphate (Ru-5-P), the product of the third oxiPPP enzyme 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD). However, we found that knockdown of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), the first oxiPPP enzyme, did not affect AMPK activation despite decreased Ru-5-P and subsequent LKB1 activation, due to enhanced activity of PP2A, the upstream phosphatase of AMPK. In contrast, knockdown of 6PGD or 6-phosphogluconolactonase (PGLS), the second oxiPPP enzyme, reduced PP2A activity. Mechanistically, knockdown of G6PD or PGLS decreased or increased 6-phosphogluconolactone level, respectively, which enhanced the inhibitory phosphorylation of PP2A by Src. Furthermore, γ-6-phosphogluconolactone, an oxiPPP byproduct with unknown function generated through intramolecular rearrangement of δ-6-phosphogluconolactone, the only substrate of PGLS, bound to Src and enhanced PP2A recruitment. Together, oxiPPP regulates AMPK homeostasis by balancing the opposing LKB1 and PP2A."	1
"32636303"	"Interleukin-6-mediated epigenetic control of the VEGFR2 gene induces disorganized angiogenesis in human breast tumors.Disorganized vessels in the tumor vasculature lead to impaired perfusion, resulting in reduced accessibility to immune cells and chemotherapeutic drugs. In the breast tumor-stroma interplay, paracrine factors such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) often facilitate disordered angiogenesis. We show here that epigenetic mechanisms regulate the crosstalk between IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) signaling pathways in myoepithelial (CD10<sup>+</sup>) and endothelial (CD31<sup>+</sup>, CD105<sup>+</sup>, CD146<sup>+</sup>, and CD133<sup>-</sup>) cells isolated from malignant and nonmalignant tissues of clinically characterized human breast tumors. Tumor endothelial (Endo-T) cells in 3D cultures exhibited higher VEGFR2 expression levels, accelerated migration, invasion, and disorganized sprout formation in response to elevated IL-6 levels secreted by tumor myoepithelial (Epi-T) cells. Constitutively, compared with normal endothelial (Endo-N) cells, Endo-T cells differentially expressed DNA methyltransferase isoforms and had increased levels of IL-6 signaling intermediates such as IL-6R and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Upon IL-6 treatment, Endo-N and Endo-T cells displayed altered expression of the DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) isoform. Mechanistic studies revealed that IL-6 induced proteasomal degradation of DNMT1, but not of DNMT3A and DNMT3B and subsequently led to promoter hypomethylation and expression/activation of <i>VEGFR2.</i> IL-6-induced VEGFR2 up-regulation was inhibited by overexpression of DNMT1. Transfection of a dominant-negative STAT3 mutant, but not of STAT1, abrogated VEGFR2 expression. Our results indicate that in the breast tumor microenvironment, IL-6 secreted from myoepithelial cells influences DNMT1 stability, induces the expression of VEGFR2 in endothelial cells via a promoter methylation-dependent mechanism, and leads to disordered angiogenesis."	1
"32075731"	"Small Molecule Inhibition of GSK-3 Specifically Inhibits the Transcription of Inhibitory Co-receptor LAG-3 for Enhanced Anti-tumor Immunity.Immune checkpoint blockade using antibodies against negative co-receptors such as cytolytic T cell antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) has seen much success treating cancer. However, most patients are still not cured, underscoring the need for improved treatments and the possible development of small molecule inhibitors (SMIs) for improved immunotherapy. We previously showed that glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3α/β is a central regulator of PD-1 expression, where GSK-3 inhibition down-regulates PD-1 and enhances CD8<sup>+</sup> cytolytic T cell (CTL) function, reducing viral infections and tumor growth. Here, we demonstrate that GSK-3 also negatively regulates Lymphocyte Activation Gene-3 (LAG-3) expression on CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells. GSK-3 SMIs are more effective than LAG-3 blockade alone in suppressing B16 melanoma growth, while their combination resulted in enhanced tumor clearance. This was linked to increased expression of the transcription factor, Tbet, which bound the LAG-3 promoter, inhibiting its transcription, and to increased granzyme B and interferon-γ1 expression. Overall, we describe a small molecule approach to inhibit LAG-3, resulting in enhanced anti-tumor immunity."	1
"32937139"	"Protein Stability Buffers the Cost of Translation Attenuation following eIF2α Phosphorylation.Phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2α is a rapid and vital response to many forms of stress, including protein-misfolding stress in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER stress). It is believed to cause a general reduction in protein synthesis while enabling translation of few transcripts. Such a reduction of protein synthesis comes with the threat of depleting essential proteins, a risk thought to be mitigated by its transient nature. Here, we find that translation attenuation is not uniform, with cytosolic and mitochondrial ribosomal subunits being prominently downregulated. Translation attenuation of these targets persists after translation recovery. Surprisingly, this occurs without a measurable decrease in ribosomal proteins. Explaining this conundrum, translation attenuation preferentially targets long-lived proteins, a finding not only demonstrated by ribosomal proteins but also observed at a global level. This shows that protein stability buffers the cost of translational attenuation, establishing an evolutionary principle of cellular robustness."	0
"32640220"	"WRNIP1 Is Recruited to DNA Interstrand Crosslinks and Promotes Repair.The Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway repairs DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs). Many FA proteins are recruited to ICLs in a timely fashion so that coordinated repair can occur. However, the mechanism of this process is poorly understood. Here, we report the purification of a FANCD2-containing protein complex with multiple subunits, including WRNIP1. Using live-cell imaging, we show that WRNIP1 is recruited to ICLs quickly after their appearance, promoting repair. The observed recruitment facilitates subsequent recruitment of the FANCD2/FANCI complex. Depletion of WRNIP1 sensitizes cells to ICL-forming drugs. We find that ubiquitination of WRNIP1 and the activity of its UBZ domain are required to facilitate recruitment of FANCD2/FANCI and promote repair. Altogether, we describe a mechanism by which WRNIP1 is recruited rapidly to ICLs, resulting in chromatin loading of the FANCD2/FANCI complex in an unusual process entailing ubiquitination of WRNIP1 and the activity of its integral UBZ domain."	1
"32101739"	"Redefining Single-Trial Memories in the Honeybee.Research on honeybee memory has led to a widely accepted model in which a single pairing of an odor stimulus with sucrose induces memories that are independent of protein synthesis but is unable to form protein-synthesis-dependent long-term memory (LTM). The latter is said to arise only after three or more pairings of odor and sucrose. Here, we show that this model underestimates the capacity of the bee brain to form LTMs after a unique appetitive experience. Using state-of-the art conditioning setups and individual-based analyses of conditioned responses, we found that protein-synthesis-dependent memories are formed already 4 h after the single conditioning trial and persist even 3 days later. These memories (4 h, 24 h, and 72 h) exhibit different dependencies on transcription and translation processes. Our results thus modify the traditional view of one-trial memories in an insect with a model status for memory research."	0
"31959557"	"A Dimeric Structural Scaffold for PRC2-PCL Targeting to CpG Island Chromatin.Diverse accessory subunits are involved in the recruitment of polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) to CpG island (CGI) chromatin. Here we report the crystal structure of a SUZ12-RBBP4 complex bound to fragments of the accessory subunits PHF19 and JARID2. Unexpectedly, this complex adopts a dimeric structural architecture, accounting for PRC2 self-association that has long been implicated. The intrinsic PRC2 dimer is formed via domain swapping involving RBBP4 and the unique C2 domain of SUZ12. MTF2 and PHF19 associate with PRC2 at around the dimer interface and stabilize the dimer. Conversely, AEBP2 binding results in a drastic movement of the C2 domain, disrupting the intrinsic PRC2 dimer. PRC2 dimerization enhances CGI DNA binding by PCLs in pairs in vitro, reminiscent of the widespread phenomenon of transcription factor dimerization in active transcription. Loss of PRC2 dimerization impairs histone H3K27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) on chromatin at developmental gene loci in mouse embryonic stem cells."	0
"32661194"	"The role of the I<sub>T</sub>-state in D76N β<sub>2</sub>-microglobulin amyloid assembly: A crucial intermediate or an innocuous bystander?The D76N variant of human β<sub>2</sub>-microglobulin (β<sub>2</sub>m) is the causative agent of a hereditary amyloid disease. Interestingly, D76N-associated amyloidosis has a distinctive pathology compared with aggregation of WT-β<sub>2</sub>m, which occurs in dialysis-related amyloidosis. A folding intermediate of WT-β<sub>2</sub>m, known as the I<sub>T</sub>-state, which contains a nonnative <i>trans</i> Pro-32, has been shown to be a key precursor of WT-β<sub>2</sub>m aggregation <i>in vitro</i> However, how a single amino acid substitution enhances the rate of aggregation of D76N-β<sub>2</sub>m and gives rise to a different amyloid disease remained unclear. Using real-time refolding experiments monitored by CD and NMR, we show that the folding mechanisms of WT- and D76N-β<sub>2</sub>m are conserved in that both proteins fold slowly via an I<sub>T</sub>-state that has similar structural properties. Surprisingly, however, direct measurement of the equilibrium population of I<sub>T</sub> using NMR showed no evidence for an increased population of the I<sub>T</sub>-state for D76N-β<sub>2</sub>m, ruling out previous models suggesting that this could explain its enhanced aggregation propensity. Producing a kinetically trapped analog of I<sub>T</sub> by deleting the N-terminal six amino acids increases the aggregation rate of WT-β<sub>2</sub>m but slows aggregation of D76N-β<sub>2</sub>m, supporting the view that although the folding mechanisms of the two proteins are conserved, their aggregation mechanisms differ. The results exclude the I<sub>T</sub>-state as the origin of the rapid aggregation of D76N-β<sub>2</sub>m, suggesting that other nonnative states must cause its high aggregation rate. The results highlight how a single substitution at a solvent-exposed site can affect the mechanism of aggregation and the resulting disease."	0
"32433973"	"Ubiquitylation of the ER-Shaping Protein Lunapark via the CRL3<sup>KLHL12</sup> Ubiquitin Ligase Complex.Cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) control key cellular processes by promoting ubiquitylation of a multitude of soluble cytosolic and nuclear proteins. Subsets of CRL complexes are recruited and activated locally at cellular membranes; however, few CRL functions and substrates at these distinct cellular compartments are known. Here, we use a proteomic screen to identify proteins that are ubiquitylated at cellular membranes and found that Lunapark, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-shaping protein localized to ER three-way junctions, is ubiquitylated by the CRL3<sup>KLHL12</sup> ubiquitin ligase. We demonstrate that Lunapark interacts with mechanistic target of rapamycin complex-1 (mTORC1), a central cellular regulator that coordinates growth and metabolism with environmental conditions. We show that mTORC1 binds Lunapark specifically at three-way junctions, and lysosomes, where mTORC1 is activated, make contact with three-way junctions where Lunapark resides. Inhibition of Lunapark ubiquitylation results in neurodevelopmental defects indicating that KLHL12-dependent ubiquitylation of Lunapark is required for normal growth and development."	1
"32675325"	"Neural production of kynurenic acid in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> requires the AAT-1 transporter.Kynurenic acid (KynA) levels link peripheral metabolic status to neural functions including learning and memory. Since neural KynA levels dampen learning capacity, KynA reduction has been proposed as a therapeutic strategy for conditions of cognitive deficit such as neurodegeneration. While KynA is generated locally within the nervous system, its precursor, kynurenine (Kyn), is largely derived from peripheral resources. The mechanisms that import Kyn into the nervous system are poorly understood. Here, we provide genetic, anatomical, biochemical, and behavioral evidence showing that in <i>C. elegans</i> an ortholog of the human LAT1 transporter, AAT-1, imports Kyn into sites of KynA production."	1
"32231312"	"Chromatin replication and epigenetic cell memory.Propagation of the chromatin landscape across cell divisions is central to epigenetic cell memory. Mechanistic analysis of the interplay between DNA replication, the cell cycle, and the epigenome has provided insights into replication-coupled chromatin assembly and post-replicative chromatin maintenance. These breakthroughs are critical for defining how proliferation impacts the epigenome during cell identity changes in development and disease. Here we review these findings in the broader context of epigenetic inheritance across mitotic cell division."	0
"32905765"	"INO80C Remodeler Maintains Genomic Stability by Preventing Promiscuous Transcription at Replication Origins.The proper coordination of transcription with DNA replication and repair is central for genomic stability. We investigate how the INO80C chromatin remodeling enzyme might coordinate these genomic processes. We find that INO80C co-localizes with the origin recognition complex (ORC) at yeast replication origins and is bound to replication initiation sites in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). In yeast, INO80C recruitment requires origin sequences but does not require ORC, suggesting that recruitment is independent of pre-replication complex assembly. In both yeast and ESCs, INO80C co-localizes at origins with Mot1 and NC2 transcription factors, and genetic studies suggest that they function together to promote genome stability. Interestingly, nascent transcript sequencing demonstrates that INO80C and Mot1 prevent pervasive transcription through origin sequences, and absence of these factors leads to formation of new DNA double-strand breaks. We propose that INO80C and Mot1/NC2 function through distinct pathways to limit origin transcription, maintaining genomic stability."	0
"32521262"	"Engineered Illumination Devices for Optogenetic Control of Cellular Signaling Dynamics.Spatially and temporally varying patterns of morphogen signals during development drive cell fate specification at the proper location and time. However, current in vitro methods typically do not allow for precise, dynamic spatiotemporal control of morphogen signaling and are thus insufficient to readily study how morphogen dynamics affect cell behavior. Here, we show that optogenetic Wnt/β-catenin pathway activation can be controlled at user-defined intensities, temporal sequences, and spatial patterns using engineered illumination devices for optogenetic photostimulation and light activation at variable amplitudes (LAVA). By patterning human embryonic stem cell (hESC) cultures with varying light intensities, LAVA devices enabled dose-responsive control of optoWnt activation and Brachyury expression. Furthermore, time-varying and spatially localized patterns of light revealed tissue patterning that models the embryonic presentation of Wnt signals in vitro. LAVA devices thus provide a low-cost, user-friendly method for high-throughput and spatiotemporal optogenetic control of cell signaling for applications in developmental and cell biology."	0
"32937129"	"A Membrane-Associated DHH-DHHA1 Nuclease Degrades Type III CRISPR Second Messenger.Type III CRISPR-Cas systems initiate an intracellular signaling pathway to confer immunity. The signaling pathway includes synthesis of cyclic oligo-adenylate (cOA) and activation of the RNase activity of type III accessory ribonuclease Csm6/Csx1 by cOA. After the immune response, cOA should be cleared on time to avoid constant cellular RNA degradation. In this study, we find a metal-dependent cOA degradation activity in Sulfolobus islandicus. The activity is associated with the cell membrane and able to accelerate cOA clearance at a high cOA level. Further, we show that a metal-dependent and membrane-associated DHH-DHHA1 family nuclease (MAD) rapidly cleaves cOA and deactivates Csx1 ribonuclease. The cOA degradation efficiency of MAD is much higher than the cellular ring nuclease. However, the subcellular organization may prevent it from degrading nascent cOA. Together, the data suggest that MAD acts as the second cOA degrader after the ring nuclease to remove diffused redundant cOA."	0
"32755592"	"Marginal Zone Formation Requires ACKR3 Expression on B Cells.The marginal zone (MZ) contributes to the highly organized spleen microarchitecture. We show that expression of atypical chemokine receptor 3 (ACKR3) defines two equal-sized populations of mouse MZ B cells (MZBs). ACKR3 is required for development of a functional MZ and for positioning of MZBs. Deletion of ACKR3 on B cells distorts the MZ, and MZBs fail to deliver antigens to follicles, reducing humoral responses. Reconstitution of MZ-deficient CD19<sup>ko</sup> mice shows that ACKR3<sup>-</sup> MZBs can differentiate into ACKR3<sup>+</sup> MZBs, but not vice versa. The lack of a MZ is rescued by adoptive transfer of ACKR3-sufficient, and less by ACKR3-deficient, follicular B cells (FoBs); hence, ACKR3 expression is crucial for establishment of the MZ. The inability of CD19<sup>ko</sup> mice to respond to T-independent antigen is rescued when ACKR3-proficient, but not ACKR3-deficient, FoBs are transferred. Accordingly, ACKR3-deficient FoBs are able to reconstitute the MZ if the niche is pre-established by ACKR3-proficient MZBs."	0
"31676232"	"PRIMPOL-Mediated Adaptive Response Suppresses Replication Fork Reversal in BRCA-Deficient Cells.Acute treatment with replication-stalling chemotherapeutics causes reversal of replication forks. BRCA proteins protect reversed forks from nucleolytic degradation, and their loss leads to chemosensitivity. Here, we show that fork degradation is no longer detectable in BRCA1-deficient cancer cells exposed to multiple cisplatin doses, mimicking a clinical treatment regimen. This effect depends on increased expression and chromatin loading of PRIMPOL and is regulated by ATR activity. Electron microscopy and single-molecule DNA fiber analyses reveal that PRIMPOL rescues fork degradation by reinitiating DNA synthesis past DNA lesions. PRIMPOL repriming leads to accumulation of ssDNA gaps while suppressing fork reversal. We propose that cells adapt to repeated cisplatin doses by activating PRIMPOL repriming under conditions that would otherwise promote pathological reversed fork degradation. This effect is generalizable to other conditions of impaired fork reversal (e.g., SMARCAL1 loss or PARP inhibition) and suggests a new strategy to modulate cisplatin chemosensitivity by targeting the PRIMPOL pathway."	1
"32433965"	"Unbiased Identification of trans Regulators of ADAR and A-to-I RNA Editing.Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing is catalyzed by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) enzymes that deaminate adenosine to inosine. Although many RNA editing sites are known, few trans regulators have been identified. We perform BioID followed by mass spectrometry to identify trans regulators of ADAR1 and ADAR2 in HeLa and M17 neuroblastoma cells. We identify known and novel ADAR-interacting proteins. Using ENCODE data, we validate and characterize a subset of the novel interactors as global or site-specific RNA editing regulators. Our set of novel trans regulators includes all four members of the DZF-domain-containing family of proteins: ILF3, ILF2, STRBP, and ZFR. We show that these proteins interact with each ADAR and modulate RNA editing levels. We find ILF3 is a broadly influential negative regulator of editing. This work demonstrates the broad roles that RNA binding proteins play in regulating editing levels, and establishes DZF-domain-containing proteins as a group of highly influential RNA editing regulators."	1
"32294433"	"Diverse CD8 T Cell Responses to Viral Infection Revealed by the Collaborative Cross.Enhanced host protection against re-infection requires generation of memory T cells of sufficient quantity and functional quality. Unlike well-studied inbred mice, T cell responses of diverse size and quality are generated following infection of humans and outbred mice. Thus, additional models are needed that accurately reflect variation in immune outcomes in genetically diverse populations and to uncover underlying genetic causes. The Collaborative Cross (CC), a large recombinant inbred panel of mice, is an ideal model in this pursuit for the high degree of genetic variation present, because it allows for assessment of genetic factors underlying unique phenotypes. Here, we advance the utility of the CC as a tool to analyze the immune response to viral infection. We describe variability in resting immune cell composition and adaptive immune responses generated among CC strains following systemic virus infection and reveal quantitative trait loci responsible for generation of CD62L+ memory CD8 T cells."	0
"32115406"	"Critical roles of phosphoinositides and NF2 in Hippo pathway regulation.The Hippo pathway is a master regulator of tissue homeostasis and organ size. NF2 is a well-established tumor suppressor, and loss of NF2 severely compromises Hippo pathway activity. However, the precise mechanism of how NF2 mediates upstream signals to regulate the Hippo pathway is not clear. Here we report that, in mammalian cells, NF2's lipid-binding ability is critical for its function in activating the Hippo pathway in response to osmotic stress. Mechanistically, osmotic stress induces PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> plasma membrane enrichment by activating the PIP5K family, allowing for NF2 plasma membrane recruitment and subsequent downstream Hippo pathway activation. An NF2 mutant deficient in lipid binding is unable to activate the Hippo pathway in response to osmotic stress, as measured by LATS and YAP phosphorylation. Our findings identify the PIP5K family as novel regulators upstream of Hippo signaling, and uncover the importance of phosphoinositide dynamics, specifically PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>, in Hippo pathway regulation."	1
"32726623"	"Acetylation of UHRF1 Regulates Hemi-methylated DNA Binding and Maintenance of Genome-wide DNA Methylation.UHRF1 is a key regulator in DNA methylation maintenance. It binds histone H3K9me2/3 and hemi-methylated DNA and recruits DNMT1 to DNA replication forks during S phase. However, the regulatory mechanism of hemi-methylated DNA binding activity of UHRF1 remains unknown. In this study, we reveal that acetylation of UHRF1 is regulated by PCAF and HDAC1. We show that UHRF1 acetylation at K490 attenuates its binding affinity to hemi-methylated DNA. We analyze genome-wide DNA methylation and gene-expression patterns using stable cell lines and discover that cells where the endogenous UHRF1 is replaced with an acetyl-mimetic (UHRF1 K490Q) mutant show deficiencies in inherited DNA methylation and show different gene-expression patterns in genes related to cell survival. These results reveal that precise regulation of UHRF1 acetylation is required to maintain DNA methylation during cell division and control cell survival."	1
"32783938"	"Essential Roles of Cohesin STAG2 in Mouse Embryonic Development and Adult Tissue Homeostasis.Cohesin mediates sister chromatid cohesion and 3D genome folding. Two versions of the complex carrying STAG1 or STAG2 coexist in somatic vertebrate cells. STAG2 is commonly mutated in cancer, and germline mutations have been identified in cohesinopathy patients. To better understand the underlying pathogenic mechanisms, we report the consequences of Stag2 ablation in mice. STAG2 is largely dispensable in adults, and its tissue-wide inactivation does not lead to tumors but reduces fitness and affects both hematopoiesis and intestinal homeostasis. STAG2 is also dispensable for murine embryonic fibroblasts in vitro. In contrast, Stag2-null embryos die by mid-gestation and show global developmental delay and defective heart morphogenesis, most prominently in structures derived from secondary heart field progenitors. Both decreased proliferation and altered transcription of tissue-specific genes contribute to these defects. Our results provide compelling evidence on cell- and tissue-specific roles of different cohesin complexes and how their dysfunction contributes to disease."	0
"32579940"	"CD28 Regulates Metabolic Fitness for Long-Lived Plasma Cell Survival.Durable humoral immunity against epidemic infectious disease requires the survival of long-lived plasma cells (LLPCs). LLPC longevity is dependent on metabolic programs distinct from short-lived plasma cells (SLPCs); however, the mechanistic basis for this difference is unclear. We have previously shown that CD28, the prototypic T cell costimulatory receptor, is expressed on both LLPCs and SLPCs but is essential only for LLPC survival. Here we show that CD28 transduces pro-survival signaling specifically in LLPCs through differential SLP76 expression. CD28 signaling in LLPCs increased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass/respiration, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Unexpectedly, CD28-mediated regulation of mitochondrial respiration, NF-κB activation, and survival was ROS dependent. IRF4, a target of NF-κB, was upregulated by CD28 activation in LLPCs and decreased IRF4 levels correlated with decreased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass, ROS, and CD28-mediated survival. Altogether, these data demonstrate that CD28 signaling induces a ROS-dependent metabolic program required for LLPC survival."	1
"32433963"	"Zinc Finger RNA-Binding Protein Zn72D Regulates ADAR-Mediated RNA Editing in Neurons.Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing, catalyzed by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) enzymes, alters RNA sequences from those encoded by DNA. These editing events are dynamically regulated, but few trans regulators of ADARs are known in vivo. Here, we screen RNA-binding proteins for roles in editing regulation with knockdown experiments in the Drosophila brain. We identify zinc-finger protein at 72D (Zn72D) as a regulator of editing levels at a majority of editing sites in the brain. Zn72D both regulates ADAR protein levels and interacts with ADAR in an RNA-dependent fashion, and similar to ADAR, Zn72D is necessary to maintain proper neuromuscular junction architecture and fly mobility. Furthermore, Zn72D's regulatory role in RNA editing is conserved because the mammalian homolog of Zn72D, Zfr, regulates editing in mouse primary neurons. The broad and conserved regulation of ADAR editing by Zn72D in neurons sustains critically important editing events."	0
"32846118"	"Antagonistic Interaction between Auxin and SA Signaling Pathways Regulates Bacterial Infection through Lateral Root in Arabidopsis.Pathogen entry into host tissues is a critical and first step in infections. In plants, the lateral roots (LRs) are a potential entry and colonization site for pathogens. Here, using a GFP-labeled pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato strain DC3000 (Pto DC3000), we observe that virulent Pto DC3000 invades plants through emerged LRs in Arabidopsis. Pto DC3000 strongly induced LR formation, a process that was dependent on the AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR7 (ARF7)/ARF19-LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES-DOMAIN (LBD) regulatory module. We show that salicylic acid (SA) represses LR formation, and several mutants defective in SA signaling are also involved in Pto DC3000-induced LR development. Significantly, ARF7, a well-documented positive regulator of LR development, directly represses the transcription of PR1 and PR2 to promote LR development. This study indicates that ARF7-mediated auxin signaling antagonizes with SA signaling to control bacterial infection through the regulation of LR development."	1
"32381628"	"Transcriptional down-regulation of metabolic genes by Gdown1 ablation induces quiescent cell re-entry into the cell cycle.Liver regeneration and metabolism are highly interconnected. Here, we show that hepatocyte-specific ablation of RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-associated Gdown1 leads to down-regulation of highly expressed genes involved in plasma protein synthesis and metabolism, a concomitant cell cycle re-entry associated with induction of cell cycle-related genes (including <i>cyclin D1</i>), and up-regulation of <i>p21</i> through activation of p53 signaling. In the absence of p53, Gdown1-deficient hepatocytes show a severe dysregulation of cell cycle progression, with incomplete mitoses, and a premalignant-like transformation. Mechanistically, Gdown1 is associated with elongating Pol II on the highly expressed genes and its ablation leads to reduced Pol II recruitment to these genes, suggesting that Pol II redistribution may facilitate hepatocyte re-entry into the cell cycle. These results establish an important physiological function for a Pol II regulatory factor (Gdown1) in the maintenance of normal liver cell transcription through constraints on cell cycle re-entry of quiescent hepatocytes."	0
"32187535"	"Morphine and Naloxone Facilitate Neural Stem Cells Proliferation via a TET1-Dependent and Receptor-Independent Pathway.Normally, opioids function in a receptor-dependent manner. They bind to opioid receptors, activate or inhibit receptor activation, and subsequently modulate downstream signal transduction. However, the complex functions of opioids and the low expression of opioid receptors and their endogenous peptide agonists in neural stem cells (NSCs) suggest that some opioids may also modulate NSCs via a receptor-independent pathway. In the current study, two opioids, morphine and naloxone, are demonstrated to facilitate NSC proliferation via a receptor-independent and ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1)-dependent pathway. Morphine and naloxone penetrate cell membrane, bind to TET1 protein via three key residues (1,880-1,882), and subsequently result in facilitated proliferation of NSCs. In addition, the two opioids also inhibit the DNA demethylation ability of TET1. In summary, the current results connect opioids and DNA demethylation directly at least in NSCs and extend our understanding on both opioids and NSCs."	1
"32640217"	"Extracellular Granzyme A Promotes Colorectal Cancer Development by Enhancing Gut Inflammation.If not properly regulated, the inflammatory immune response can promote carcinogenesis, as evident in colorectal cancer (CRC). Aiming to gain mechanistic insight into the link between inflammation and CRC, we perform transcriptomics analysis of human CRC, identifying a strong correlation between expression of the serine protease granzyme A (GzmA) and inflammation. In a dextran sodium sulfate and azoxymethane (DSS/AOM) mouse model, deficiency and pharmacological inhibition of extracellular GzmA both attenuate gut inflammation and prevent CRC development, including the initial steps of cell transformation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, extracellular GzmA induces NF-κB-dependent IL-6 production in macrophages, which in turn promotes STAT3 activation in cultured CRC cells. Accordingly, colon tissues from DSS/AOM-treated, GzmA-deficient animals present reduced levels of pSTAT3. By identifying GzmA as a proinflammatory protease that promotes CRC development, these findings provide information on mechanisms that link immune cell infiltration to cancer progression and present GzmA as a therapeutic target for CRC."	1
"32130894"	"Mitochondrial Pyruvate Carrier 1 Promotes Peripheral T Cell Homeostasis through Metabolic Regulation of Thymic Development.Metabolic pathways regulate T cell development and function, but many remain understudied. Recently, the mitochondrial pyruvate carrier (MPC) was identified as the transporter that mediates pyruvate entry into mitochondria, promoting pyruvate oxidation. Here we find that deleting Mpc1, an obligate MPC subunit, in the hematopoietic system results in a specific reduction in peripheral αβ T cell numbers. MPC1-deficient T cells have defective thymic development at the β-selection, intermediate single positive (ISP)-to-double-positive (DP), and positive selection steps. We find that early thymocytes deficient in MPC1 display alterations to multiple pathways involved in T cell development. This results in preferred escape of more activated T cells. Finally, mice with hematopoietic deletion of Mpc1 are more susceptible to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Altogether, our study demonstrates that pyruvate oxidation by T cell precursors is necessary for optimal αβ T cell development and that its deficiency results in reduced but activated peripheral T cell populations."	0
"32375032"	"MicroRNA-9 Fine-Tunes Dendritic Cell Function by Suppressing Negative Regulators in a Cell-Type-Specific Manner.Dendritic cells, cells of the innate immune system, are found in a steady state poised to respond to activating stimuli. Once stimulated, they rapidly undergo dynamic changes in gene expression to adopt an activated phenotype capable of stimulating immune responses. We find that the microRNA miR-9 is upregulated in both bone marrow-derived DCs and conventional DC1s but not in conventional DC2s following stimulation. miR-9 expression in BMDCs and conventional DC1s promotes enhanced DC activation and function, including the ability to stimulate T cell activation and control tumor growth. We find that miR-9 regulated the expression of several negative regulators of transcription, including the transcriptional repressor Polycomb group factor 6 (Pcgf6). These findings demonstrate that miR-9 facilitates the transition of DCs from steady state to mature state by regulating the expression of several negative regulators of DC function in a cell-type-specific manner."	1
"31901447"	"Lipid Droplet-Derived Monounsaturated Fatty Acids Traffic via PLIN5 to Allosterically Activate SIRT1.Lipid droplets (LDs) provide a reservoir for triacylglycerol storage and are a central hub for fatty acid trafficking and signaling in cells. Lipolysis promotes mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism via a SIRT1/PGC-1α/PPARα-dependent pathway through an unknown mechanism. Herein, we identify that monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) allosterically activate SIRT1 toward select peptide-substrates such as PGC-1α. MUFAs enhance PGC-1α/PPARα signaling and promote oxidative metabolism in cells and animal models in a SIRT1-dependent manner. Moreover, we characterize the LD protein perilipin 5 (PLIN5), which is known to enhance mitochondrial biogenesis and function, to be a fatty-acid-binding protein that preferentially binds LD-derived monounsaturated fatty acids and traffics them to the nucleus following cAMP/PKA-mediated lipolytic stimulation. Thus, these studies identify the first-known endogenous allosteric modulators of SIRT1 and characterize a LD-nuclear signaling axis that underlies the known metabolic benefits of MUFAs and PLIN5."	1
"32579913"	"Structure-Based Identification and Functional Characterization of a Lipocalin in the Malaria Parasite Plasmodium falciparum.Proteins of the lipocalin family are known to bind small hydrophobic ligands and are involved in various physiological processes ranging from lipid transport to oxidative stress responses. The genome of the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum contains a single protein PF3D7_0925900 with a lipocalin signature. Using crystallography and small-angle X-ray scattering, we show that the protein has a tetrameric structure of typical lipocalin monomers; hence we name it P. falciparum lipocalin (PfLCN). We show that PfLCN is expressed in the intraerythrocytic stages of the parasite and localizes to the parasitophorous and food vacuoles. Conditional knockdown of PfLCN impairs parasite development, which can be rescued by treatment with the radical scavenger Trolox or by temporal inhibition of hemoglobin digestion. This suggests a key function of PfLCN in counteracting oxidative stress-induced cell damage during multiplication of parasites within erythrocytes."	0
"32101700"	"Mouse Heterochromatin Adopts Digital Compaction States without Showing Hallmarks of HP1-Driven Liquid-Liquid Phase Separation.The formation of silenced and condensed heterochromatin foci involves enrichment of heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1). HP1 can bridge chromatin segments and form liquid droplets, but the biophysical principles underlying heterochromatin compartmentalization in the cell nucleus are elusive. Here, we assess mechanistically relevant features of pericentric heterochromatin compaction in mouse fibroblasts. We find that (1) HP1 has only a weak capacity to form liquid droplets in living cells; (2) the size, global accessibility, and compaction of heterochromatin foci are independent of HP1; (3) heterochromatin foci lack a separated liquid HP1 pool; and (4) heterochromatin compaction can toggle between two ""digital"" states depending on the presence of a strong transcriptional activator. These findings indicate that heterochromatin foci resemble collapsed polymer globules that are percolated with the same nucleoplasmic liquid as the surrounding euchromatin, which has implications for our understanding of chromatin compartmentalization and its functional consequences."	0
"32160551"	"NRBP1-Containing CRL2/CRL4A Regulates Amyloid β Production by Targeting BRI2 and BRI3 for Degradation.Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by accumulations of Aβ peptides. Production and fibrillation of Aβ are downregulated by BRI2 and BRI3, which are physiological inhibitors of amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and Aβ oligomerization. Here, we identify nuclear receptor binding protein 1 (NRBP1) as a substrate receptor of a Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL) that targets BRI2 and BRI3 for degradation. Moreover, we demonstrate that (1) dimerized NRBP1 assembles into a functional Cul2- and Cul4A-containing heterodimeric CRL through its BC-box and an overlapping cryptic H-box, (2) both Cul2 and Cul4A contribute to NRBP1 CRL function, and (3) formation of the NRBP1 heterodimeric CRL is strongly enhanced by chaperone-like function of TSC22D3 and TSC22D4. NRBP1 knockdown in neuronal cells results in an increase in the abundance of BRI2 and BRI3 and significantly reduces Aβ production. Thus, disrupting interactions between NRBP1 and its substrates BRI2 and BRI3 may provide a useful therapeutic strategy for AD."	1
"32231307"	"Single-cell chromatin accessibility maps reveal regulatory programs driving early mouse organogenesis.During mouse embryonic development, pluripotent cells rapidly divide and diversify, yet the regulatory programs that define the cell repertoire for each organ remain ill-defined. To delineate comprehensive chromatin landscapes during early organogenesis, we mapped chromatin accessibility in 19,453 single nuclei from mouse embryos at 8.25 days post-fertilization. Identification of cell-type-specific regions of open chromatin pinpointed two TAL1-bound endothelial enhancers, which we validated using transgenic mouse assays. Integrated gene expression and transcription factor motif enrichment analyses highlighted cell-type-specific transcriptional regulators. Subsequent in vivo experiments in zebrafish revealed a role for the ETS factor FEV in endothelial identity downstream of ETV2 (Etsrp in zebrafish). Concerted in vivo validation experiments in mouse and zebrafish thus illustrate how single-cell open chromatin maps, representative of a mammalian embryo, provide access to the regulatory blueprint for mammalian organogenesis."	0
"32905770"	"Metabolic Control of Gametophore Shoot Formation through Arginine in the Moss Physcomitrium patens.Shoot formation is accompanied by active cell proliferation and expansion, requiring that metabolic state adapts to developmental control. Despite the importance of such metabolic reprogramming, it remains unclear how development and metabolism are integrated. Here, we show that disruption of ANGUSTIFOLIA3 orthologs (PpAN3s) compromises gametophore shoot formation in the moss Physcomitrium patens due to defective cell proliferation and expansion. Trans-omics analysis reveals that the downstream activity of PpAN3 is linked to arginine metabolism. Elevating arginine level by chemical treatment leads to stunted gametophores and causes Ppan3 mutant-like transcriptional changes in the wild-type plant. Furthermore, ectopic expression of AtAN3 from Arabidopsis thaliana ameliorates the defective arginine metabolism and promotes gametophore formation in Ppan3 mutants. Together, these findings indicate that arginine metabolism is a key pathway associated with gametophore formation and provide evolutionary insights into the establishment of the shoot system in land plants through the integration of developmental and metabolic processes."	0
"30711375"	"A Code of Mono-phosphorylation Modulates the Function of RB.Hyper-phosphorylation of RB controls its interaction with E2F and inhibits its tumor suppressor properties. However, during G1 active RB can be mono-phosphorylated on any one of 14 CDK phosphorylation sites. Here, we used quantitative proteomics to profile protein complexes formed by each mono-phosphorylated RB isoform (mP-RB) and identified the associated transcriptional outputs. The results show that the 14 sites of mono-phosphorylation co-ordinate RB's interactions and confer functional specificity. All 14 mP-RBs interact with E2F/DP proteins, but they provide different shades of E2F regulation. RB mono-phosphorylation at S811, for example, alters RB transcriptional activity by promoting its association with NuRD complexes. The greatest functional differences between mP-RBs are evident beyond the cell cycle machinery. RB mono-phosphorylation at S811 or T826 stimulates the expression of oxidative phosphorylation genes, increasing cellular oxygen consumption. These results indicate that RB activation signals are integrated in a phosphorylation code that determines the diversity of RB activity."	0
"32294431"	"Network Analysis of Murine Cortical Dynamics Implicates Untuned Neurons in Visual Stimulus Coding.Unbiased and dense sampling of large populations of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in mouse primary visual cortex (V1) reveals two functional sub-populations: neurons tuned and untuned to drifting gratings. Whether functional interactions between these two groups contribute to the representation of visual stimuli is unclear. To examine these interactions, we summarize the population partial pairwise correlation structure as a directed and weighted graph. We find that tuned and untuned neurons have distinct topological properties, with untuned neurons occupying central positions in functional networks (FNs). Implementation of a decoder that utilizes the topology of these FNs yields accurate decoding of visual stimuli. We further show that decoding performance degrades comparably following manipulations of either tuned or untuned neurons. Our results demonstrate that untuned neurons are an integral component of V1 FNs and suggest that network interactions contain information about the stimulus that is accessible to downstream elements."	0
"31940487"	"Hippocampal Ripple Coordinates Retrosplenial Inhibitory Neurons during Slow-Wave Sleep.The hippocampus and retrosplenial cortex (RSC) play indispensable roles in memory formation, and importantly, a hippocampal oscillation known as ripple is key to consolidation of new memories. However, it remains unclear how the hippocampus and RSC communicate and the role of ripple oscillation in coordinating the activity between these two brain regions. Here, we record from the dorsal hippocampus and RSC simultaneously in freely behaving mice during sleep and reveal that the RSC displays a pre-ripple activation associated with slow and fast oscillations. Immediately after ripples, a subpopulation of RSC putative inhibitory neurons increases firing activity, while most RSC putative excitatory neurons decrease activity. Consistently, optogenetic stimulation of this hippocampus-RSC pathway activates and suppresses RSC putative inhibitory and excitatory neurons, respectively. These results suggest that the dorsal hippocampus mainly inhibits RSC activity via its direct innervation of RSC inhibitory neurons, which overshadows the RSC in supporting learning and memory functions."	0
"31629659"	"KDM3A Senses Oxygen Availability to Regulate PGC-1α-Mediated Mitochondrial Biogenesis.Hypoxia, which occurs during tumor growth, triggers complex adaptive responses in which peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α) plays a critical role in mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. However, how PGC-1α is regulated in response to oxygen availability remains unclear. We demonstrated that lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) binds to PGC-1α and demethylates monomethylated lysine (K) 224 of PGC-1α under normoxic conditions. Hypoxic stimulation inhibits KDM3A, which has a high K<sub>M</sub> of oxygen for its activity, and enhances PGC-1α K224 monomethylation. This modification decreases PGC-1α's activity required for NRF1- and NRF2-dependent transcriptional regulation of TFAM, TFB1M, and TFB2M, resulting in reduced mitochondrial biogenesis. Expression of PGC-1α K224R mutant significantly increases mitochondrial biogenesis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and tumor cell apoptosis under hypoxia and inhibits brain tumor growth in mice. This study revealed that PGC-1α monomethylation, which is dependent on oxygen availability-regulated KDM3A, plays a critical role in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis."	1
"32610146"	"MZT Proteins Form Multi-Faceted Structural Modules in the γ-Tubulin Ring Complex.Microtubule organization depends on the γ-tubulin ring complex (γ-TuRC), a ∼2.3-MDa nucleation factor comprising an asymmetric assembly of γ-tubulin and GCP2-GCP6. However, it is currently unclear how the γ-TuRC-associated microproteins MZT1 and MZT2 contribute to the structure and regulation of the holocomplex. Here, we report cryo-EM structures of MZT1 and MZT2 in the context of the native human γ-TuRC. MZT1 forms two subcomplexes with the N-terminal α-helical domains of GCP3 or GCP6 (GCP-NHDs) within the γ-TuRC ""lumenal bridge."" We determine the X-ray structure of recombinant MZT1/GCP6-NHD and find it is similar to that within the native γ-TuRC. We identify two additional MZT/GCP-NHD-like subcomplexes, one of which is located on the outer face of the γ-TuRC and comprises MZT2 and GCP2-NHD in complex with a centrosomin motif 1 (CM1)-containing peptide. Our data reveal how MZT1 and MZT2 establish multi-faceted, structurally mimetic ""modules"" that can expand structural and regulatory interfaces in the γ-TuRC."	0
"31919188"	"The chromatin remodeler Snf2h is essential for oocyte meiotic cell cycle progression.Oocytes are indispensable for mammalian life. Thus, it is important to understand how mature oocytes are generated. As a critical stage of oocytes development, meiosis has been extensively studied, yet how chromatin remodeling contributes to this process is largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factor Snf2h (also known as Smarca5) plays a critical role in regulating meiotic cell cycle progression. Females with oocyte-specific depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> are infertile and oocytes lacking <i>Snf2h</i> fail to undergo meiotic resumption. Mechanistically, depletion of <i>Snf2h</i> results in dysregulation of meiosis-related genes, which causes failure of maturation-promoting factor (MPF) activation. ATAC-seq analysis in oocytes revealed that Snf2h regulates transcription of key meiotic genes, such as <i>Prkar2b</i>, by increasing its promoter chromatin accessibility. Thus, our studies not only demonstrate the importance of Snf2h in oocyte meiotic resumption, but also reveal the mechanism underlying how a chromatin remodeling factor can regulate oocyte meiosis."	1
"30878284"	"Apoptotic Caspases Suppress Type I Interferon Production via the Cleavage of cGAS, MAVS, and IRF3.Viral infection triggers host defenses through pattern-recognition receptor-mediated cytokine production, inflammasome activation, and apoptosis of the infected cells. Inflammasome-activated caspases are known to cleave cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS). Here, we found that apoptotic caspases are critically involved in regulating both DNA and RNA virus-triggered host defenses, in which activated caspase-3 cleaved cGAS, MAVS, and IRF3 to prevent cytokine overproduction. Caspase-3 was exclusively required in human cells, whereas caspase-7 was involved only in murine cells to inactivate cGAS, reflecting distinct regulatory mechanisms in different species. Caspase-mediated cGAS cleavage was enhanced in the presence of dsDNA. Alternative MAVS cleavage sites were used to ensure the inactivation of this critical protein. Elevated type I IFNs were detected in caspase-3-deficient cells without any infection. Casp3<sup>-/-</sup> mice consistently showed increased resistance to viral infection and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Our results demonstrate that apoptotic caspases control innate immunity and maintain immune homeostasis against viral infection."	1
"32294430"	"Cdk4 and Cdk6 Couple the Cell-Cycle Machinery to Cell Growth via mTORC1.Cell growth is coupled to cell-cycle progression in mitotically proliferating mammalian cells, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. CyclinD-Cdk4/6 is known to phosphorylate RB to promote S-phase entry, but recent work suggests they have additional functions. We show here that CyclinD-Cdk4/6 activates mTORC1 by binding and phosphorylating TSC2 on Ser1217 and Ser1452. Pharmacological inhibition of Cdk4/6 leads to a rapid, TSC2-dependent reduction of mTORC1 activity in multiple human and mouse cell lines, including breast cancer cells. By simultaneously driving mTORC1 and E2F, CyclinD-Cdk4/6 couples cell growth to cell-cycle progression. Consistent with this, we see that mTORC1 activity is cell cycle dependent in proliferating neural stem cells of the adult rodent brain. We find that Cdk4/6 inhibition reduces cell proliferation partly via TSC2 and mTORC1. This is of clinical relevance, because Cdk4/6 inhibitors are used for breast cancer therapy."	1
"30795892"	"Structural Basis for the Action of an All-Purpose Transcription Anti-termination Factor.Bacteriophage λN protein, a model anti-termination factor, binds nascent RNA and host Nus factors, rendering RNA polymerase resistant to all pause and termination signals. A 3.7-Å-resolution cryo-electron microscopy structure and structure-informed functional analyses reveal a multi-pronged strategy by which the intrinsically unstructured λN directly modifies RNA polymerase interactions with the nucleic acids and subverts essential functions of NusA, NusE, and NusG to reprogram the transcriptional apparatus. λN repositions NusA and remodels the β subunit flap tip, which likely precludes folding of pause or termination RNA hairpins in the exit tunnel and disrupts termination-supporting interactions of the α subunit C-terminal domains. λN invades and traverses the RNA polymerase hybrid cavity, likely stabilizing the hybrid and impeding pause- or termination-related conformational changes of polymerase. λN also lines upstream DNA, seemingly reinforcing anti-backtracking and anti-swiveling by NusG. Moreover, λN-repositioned NusA and NusE sequester the NusG C-terminal domain, counteracting ρ-dependent termination. Other anti-terminators likely utilize similar mechanisms to enable processive transcription."	0
"32579924"	"Tonic GABAergic Inhibition Is Essential for Nerve Injury-Induced Afferent Remodeling in the Somatosensory Thalamus and Ectopic Sensations.Peripheral nerve injury induces functional and structural remodeling of neural circuits along the somatosensory pathways, forming the basis for somatotopic reorganization and ectopic sensations, such as referred phantom pain. However, the mechanisms underlying that remodeling remain largely unknown. Whisker sensory nerve injury drives functional remodeling in the somatosensory thalamus: the number of afferent inputs to each thalamic neuron increases from one to many. Here, we report that extrasynaptic γ-aminobutyric acid-type A receptor (GABA<sub>A</sub>R)-mediated tonic inhibition is necessary for that remodeling. Extrasynaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>R currents were potentiated rapidly after nerve injury in advance of remodeling. Pharmacological activation of the thalamic extrasynaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs in intact mice induced similar remodeling. Notably, conditional deletion of extrasynaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs in the thalamus rescued both the injury-induced remodeling and the ectopic mechanical hypersensitivity. Together, our results reveal a molecular basis for injury-induced remodeling of neural circuits and may provide a new pharmacological target for referred phantom sensations after peripheral nerve injury."	0
"32375042"	"The Parkinson's Disease Protein LRRK2 Interacts with the GARP Complex to Promote Retrograde Transport to the trans-Golgi Network.Mutations in Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) cause Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the precise function of LRRK2 remains unclear. We report an interaction between LRRK2 and VPS52, a subunit of the Golgi-associated retrograde protein (GARP) complex that identifies a function of LRRK2 in regulating membrane fusion at the trans-Golgi network (TGN). At the TGN, LRRK2 further interacts with the Golgi SNAREs VAMP4 and Syntaxin-6 and acts as a scaffolding platform that stabilizes the GARP-SNAREs complex formation. Therefore, LRRK2 influences both retrograde and post-Golgi trafficking pathways in a manner dependent on its GTP binding and kinase activity. This action is exaggerated by mutations associated with Parkinson's disease and can be blocked by kinase inhibitors. Disruption of GARP sensitizes dopamine neurons to mutant LRRK2 toxicity in C. elegans, showing that these pathways are interlinked in vivo and suggesting a link in PD."	1
"32698002"	"Calorie Restriction Increases the Number of Competing Stem Cells and Decreases Mutation Retention in the Intestine.Calorie restriction (CR) extends lifespan through several intracellular mechanisms, including increased DNA repair, leading to fewer DNA mutations that cause age-related pathologies. However, it remains unknown how CR acts on mutation retention at the tissue level. Here, we use Cre-mediated DNA recombination of the confetti reporter as proxy for neutral mutations and follow these mutations by intravital microscopy to identify how CR affects retention of mutations in the intestine. We find that CR leads to increased numbers of functional Lgr5<sup>+</sup> stem cells that compete for niche occupancy, resulting in slower but stronger stem cell competition. Consequently, stem cells carrying neutral or Apc mutations encounter more wild-type competitors, thus increasing the chance that they get displaced from the niche to get lost over time. Thus, our data show that CR not only affects the acquisition of mutations but also leads to lower retention of mutations in the intestine."	0
"31677974"	"Control of RNA Pol II Speed by PNUTS-PP1 and Spt5 Dephosphorylation Facilitates Termination by a ""Sitting Duck Torpedo"" Mechanism.Control of transcription speed, which influences many co-transcriptional processes, is poorly understood. We report that PNUTS-PP1 phosphatase is a negative regulator of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) elongation rate. The PNUTS W401A mutation, which disrupts PP1 binding, causes genome-wide acceleration of transcription associated with hyper-phosphorylation of the Spt5 elongation factor. Immediately downstream of poly(A) sites, Pol II decelerates from >2 kb/min to <1 kb/min, which correlates with Spt5 dephosphorylation. Pol II deceleration and Spt5 dephosphorylation require poly(A) site recognition and the PNUTS-PP1 complex, which is in turn necessary for transcription termination. These results lead to a model for termination, the ""sitting duck torpedo"" mechanism, where poly(A) site-dependent deceleration caused by PNUTS-PP1 and Spt5 dephosphorylation is required to convert Pol II into a viable target for the Xrn2 terminator exonuclease. Spt5 and its bacterial homolog NusG therefore have related functions controlling kinetic competition between RNA polymerases and the termination factors that pursue them."	1
"32521264"	"PRMT1-p53 Pathway Controls Epicardial EMT and Invasion.Epicardial cells are cardiac progenitors that give rise to the majority of cardiac fibroblasts, coronary smooth muscle cells, and pericytes during development. An integral phase of epicardial fate transition is epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) that confers motility. We uncover an essential role for the protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) in epicardial invasion and differentiation. Using scRNA-seq, we show that epicardial-specific deletion of Prmt1 reduced matrix and ribosomal gene expression in epicardial-derived cell lineages. PRMT1 regulates splicing of Mdm4, which is a key controller of p53 stability. Loss of PRMT1 leads to accumulation of p53 that enhances Slug degradation and blocks EMT. During heart development, the PRMT1-p53 pathway is required for epicardial invasion and formation of epicardial-derived lineages: cardiac fibroblasts, coronary smooth muscle cells, and pericytes. Consequently, this pathway modulates ventricular morphogenesis and coronary vessel formation. Altogether, our study reveals molecular mechanisms involving the PRMT1-p53 pathway and establish its roles in heart development."	1
"32367047"	"Myeloid PTEN promotes chemotherapy-induced NLRP3-inflammasome activation and antitumour immunity.PTEN is a dual-specificity phosphatase that is frequently mutated in human cancer, and its deficiency in cancer has been associated with therapy resistance and poor survival. Although the intrinsic tumour-suppressor function of PTEN has been well established, evidence of its role in the tumour immune microenvironment is lacking. Here, we show that chemotherapy-induced antitumour immune responses and tumour suppression rely on myeloid-cell PTEN, which is essential for chemotherapy-induced activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and antitumour immunity. PTEN directly interacts with and dephosphorylates NLRP3 to enable NLRP3-ASC interaction, inflammasome assembly and activation. Importantly, supplementation of IL-1β restores chemotherapy sensitivity in mouse myeloid cells with a PTEN deficiency. Clinically, chemotherapy-induced IL-1β production and antitumour immunity in patients with cancer is correlated with PTEN expression in myeloid cells, but not tumour cells. Our results demonstrate that myeloid PTEN can determine chemotherapy responsiveness by promoting NLRP3-dependent antitumour immunity and suggest that myeloid PTEN might be a potential biomarker to predict chemotherapy responses."	1
"31901446"	"Su(var)2-10 and the SUMO Pathway Link piRNA-Guided Target Recognition to Chromatin Silencing.Regulation of transcription is the main mechanism responsible for precise control of gene expression. Whereas the majority of transcriptional regulation is mediated by DNA-binding transcription factors that bind to regulatory gene regions, an elegant alternative strategy employs small RNA guides, Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) to identify targets of transcriptional repression. Here, we show that in Drosophila the small ubiquitin-like protein SUMO and the SUMO E3 ligase Su(var)2-10 are required for piRNA-guided deposition of repressive chromatin marks and transcriptional silencing of piRNA targets. Su(var)2-10 links the piRNA-guided target recognition complex to the silencing effector by binding the piRNA/Piwi complex and inducing SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde histone methyltransferase effector. We propose that in Drosophila, the nuclear piRNA pathway has co-opted a conserved mechanism of SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde chromatin modifier to confer repression of genomic parasites."	1
"31968247"	"Constitutive Interferon Attenuates RIPK1/3-Mediated Cytokine Translation.Receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1) and 3 (RIPK3) are well known for their capacity to drive necroptosis via mixed-lineage kinase-like domain (MLKL). Recently, RIPK1/3 kinase activity has been shown to drive inflammation via activation of MAPK signaling. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying this kinase-dependent cytokine production remain poorly understood. In the present study, we establish that the kinase activity of RIPK1/3 regulates cytokine translation in mouse and human macrophages. Furthermore, we show that this inflammatory response is downregulated by type I interferon (IFN) signaling, independent of type I IFN-promoted cell death. Specifically, low-level constitutive IFN signaling attenuates RIPK-driven activation of cap-dependent translation initiation pathway components AKT, mTORC1, 4E-BP and eIF4E, while promoting RIPK-dependent cell death. Altogether, these data characterize constitutive IFN signaling as a regulator of RIPK-dependent inflammation and establish cap-dependent translation as a crucial checkpoint in the regulation of cytokine production."	1
"32075774"	"CtBP1-Mediated Membrane Fission Contributes to Effective Recycling of Synaptic Vesicles.Compensatory endocytosis of released synaptic vesicles (SVs) relies on coordinated signaling at the lipid-protein interface. Here, we address the synaptic function of C-terminal binding protein 1 (CtBP1), a ubiquitous regulator of gene expression and membrane trafficking in cultured hippocampal neurons. In the absence of CtBP1, synapses form in greater density and show changes in SV distribution and size. The increased basal neurotransmission and enhanced synaptic depression could be attributed to a higher vesicular release probability and a smaller fraction of release-competent SVs, respectively. Rescue experiments with specifically targeted constructs indicate that, while synaptogenesis and release probability are controlled by nuclear CtBP1, the efficient recycling of SVs relies on its synaptic expression. The ability of presynaptic CtBP1 to facilitate compensatory endocytosis depends on its membrane-fission activity and the activation of the lipid-metabolizing enzyme PLD1. Thus, CtBP1 regulates SV recycling by promoting a permissive lipid environment for compensatory endocytosis."	0
"32877667"	"CD49a Regulates Cutaneous Resident Memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T Cell Persistence and Response.CD8<sup>+</sup> tissue-resident memory T cells (T<sub>RM</sub>) persist at sites of previous infection, where they provide rapid local protection against pathogen challenge. CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> expressing the α1 chain (CD49a) of integrin VLA-1 have been identified within sites of resolved skin infection and in vitiligo lesions. We demonstrate that CD49a is expressed early following T cell activation in vivo, and TGF-β and IL-12 induce CD49a expression by CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in vitro. Despite this rapid expression, CD49a is not required for the generation of a primary CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell response to cutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, migration of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells across the epidermal basement membrane, or positioning of T<sub>RM</sub> within basal epidermis. Rather, CD49a supports CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> persistence within skin, regulates epidermal CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> dendritic extensions, and increases the frequency of IFN-γ<sup>+</sup> CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> following local antigen challenge. Our results suggest that CD49a promotes optimal cutaneous CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub>-mediated immunity."	1
"32101753"	"Auto-ubiquitination of NEDD4-1 Recruits USP13 to Facilitate Autophagy through Deubiquitinating VPS34.The class III phosphoinositide 3-kinase vacuolar protein sorting 34 (VPS34) is a core protein of autophagy initiation, yet the regulatory mechanisms responsible for its stringent control remain poorly understood. Here, we report that the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4-1 promotes the autophagy flux by targeting VPS34. NEDD4-1 undergoes lysine 29 (K29)-linked auto-ubiquitination at K1279 and serves as a scaffold for recruiting the ubiquitin-specific protease 13 (USP13) to form an NEDD4-1-USP13 deubiquitination complex, which subsequently stabilizes VPS34 to promote autophagy through removing the K48-linked poly-ubiquitin chains from VPS34 at K419. Knockout of either NEDD4-1 or USP13 increased K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation of VPS34, thus attenuating the formation of the autophagosome. Our results identify an essential role for NEDD4-1 in regulating autophagy, which provides molecular insights into the mechanisms by which ubiquitination regulates autophagy flux."	1
"32294429"	"Progesterone Receptor Serves the Ovary as a Trigger of Ovulation and a Terminator of Inflammation.Ovulation is triggered by the gonadotropin surge that induces the expression of two key genes, progesterone receptor (Pgr) and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2), in the granulosa cells of preovulatory follicles. Their gene products PGR and PTGS2 activate two separate pathways that are both essential for successful ovulation. Here, we show that the PGR plays an additional essential role: it attenuates ovulatory inflammation by diminishing the gonadotropin surge-induced Ptgs2 expression. PGR indirectly terminates Ptgs2 expression and PGE2 synthesis in granulosa cells by inhibiting the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), a transcription factor required for Ptgs2 expression. When the expression of PGR is ablated in granulosa cells, the ovary undergoes a hyperinflammatory condition manifested by excessive PGE2 synthesis, immune cell infiltration, oxidative damage, and neoplastic transformation of ovarian cells. The PGR-driven termination of PTGS2 expression may protect the ovary from ovulatory inflammation."	1
"32703900"	"Regulation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 dynamics through multisite phosphorylation by GSK3.Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 (eIF6) is essential for the synthesis of 60S ribosomal subunits and for regulating the association of 60S and 40S subunits. A mechanistic understanding of how eIF6 modulates translation in response to stress, specifically starvation-induced stress, is lacking. We here show a novel mode of eIF6 regulation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) that is predominantly active in response to serum starvation. Both GSK3α and GSK3β phosphorylate human eIF6. Multiple residues in the C terminus of eIF6 are phosphorylated by GSK3 in a sequential manner. In response to serum starvation, eIF6 accumulates in the cytoplasm, and this altered localization depends on phosphorylation by GSK3. Disruption of eIF6 phosphorylation exacerbates the translation inhibitory response to serum starvation and stalls cell growth. These results suggest that eIF6 regulation by GSK3 contributes to the attenuation of global protein synthesis that is critical for adaptation to starvation-induced stress."	1
"32209468"	"The Absence of HIF-1α Increases Susceptibility to Leishmania donovani Infection via Activation of BNIP3/mTOR/SREBP-1c Axis.Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α) is considered a global regulator of cellular metabolism and innate immune cell functions. Intracellular pathogens such as Leishmania have been reported to manipulate host cell metabolism. Herein, we demonstrate that myeloid cells from myeloid-restricted HIF-1α-deficient mice and individuals with loss-of-function HIF1A gene polymorphisms are more susceptible to L. donovani infection through increased lipogenesis. Absence of HIF-1α leads to a defect in BNIP3 expression, resulting in the activation of mTOR and nuclear translocation of SREBP-1c. We observed the induction of lipogenic gene transcripts, such as FASN, and lipid accumulation in infected HIF-1α<sup>-/-</sup> macrophages. L. donovani-infected HIF-1α-deficient mice develop hypertriglyceridemia and lipid accumulation in splenic and hepatic myeloid cells. Most importantly, our data demonstrate that manipulating FASN or SREBP-1c using pharmacological inhibitors significantly reduced parasite burden. As such, genetic deficiency of HIF-1α is associated with increased lipid accumulation, which results in impaired host-protective anti-leishmanial functions of myeloid cells."	0
"32826335"	"Taking the ""Me"" out of meat: A new demethylation pathway dismantles a toxin's precursor.Carnitine, a molecule found in red meat, is metabolized to trimethylamine (TMA) by the gut microbiota. TMA is then converted in the liver to trimethylamine oxide, a causative agent for atherosclerosis. Kountz <i>et al</i> have discovered an alternative pathway for carnitine metabolism in the gut bacterium <i>Eubacterium limosum</i> Instead of forming TMA, carnitine is demethylated by the newly discovered methyltransferase MtcB, sending one-carbon units into production of short-chain fatty acids. These results suggest that bacterial metabolic activities could promote cardiovascular health by preventing the buildup of toxin precursors."	0
"32402271"	"The Histone Methyltransferase G9a Controls Axon Growth by Targeting the RhoA Signaling Pathway.The generation of axonal and dendritic domains is critical for brain circuitry assembly and physiology. Negative players, such as the RhoA-Rho coiled-coil-associated protein kinase (ROCK) signaling pathway, restrain axon development and polarization. Surprisingly, the genetic control of neuronal polarity has remained largely unexplored. Here, we report that, in primary cultured neurons, expression of the histone methyltransferase G9a and nuclear translocation of its major splicing isoform (G9a/E10+) peak at the time of axon formation. RNAi suppression of G9a/E10+ or pharmacological blockade of G9a constrains neuronal migration, axon initiation, and the establishment of neuronal polarity in situ and in vitro. Inhibition of G9a function upregulates RhoA-ROCK activity by increasing the expression of Lfc, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA. Together, these results identify G9a as a player in neuronal polarization."	1
"30981630"	"Structural Basis of Dot1L Stimulation by Histone H2B Lysine 120 Ubiquitination.The essential histone H3 lysine 79 methyltransferase Dot1L regulates transcription and genomic stability and is deregulated in leukemia. The activity of Dot1L is stimulated by mono-ubiquitination of histone H2B on lysine 120 (H2BK120Ub); however, the detailed mechanism is not understood. We report cryo-EM structures of human Dot1L bound to (1) H2BK120Ub and (2) unmodified nucleosome substrates at 3.5 Å and 4.9 Å, respectively. Comparison of both structures, complemented with biochemical experiments, provides critical insights into the mechanism of Dot1L stimulation by H2BK120Ub. Both structures show Dot1L binding to the same extended surface of the histone octamer. In yeast, this surface is used by silencing proteins involved in heterochromatin formation, explaining the mechanism of their competition with Dot1. These results provide a strong foundation for understanding conserved crosstalk between histone modifications found at actively transcribed genes and offer a general model of how ubiquitin might regulate the activity of chromatin enzymes."	0
"31812350"	"Targeting UBE4A Revives Viperin Protein in Epithelium to Enhance Host Antiviral Defense.Mutation and prevalence of pathogenic viruses prompt the development of broad-spectrum antiviral strategies. Viperin is a potent antiviral protein that inhibits a broad range of viruses. Unexpectedly, we found that Viperin protein production in epithelium is defective in response to both viruses and interferons (IFNs). We further revealed that viruses and IFNs stimulate expression of the acetyltransferase HAT1, which induces Lys197-acetylation on Viperin. Viperin acetylation in turn recruits UBE4A that stimulates K6-linked polyubiquitination at Lys206 of Viperin, leading to Viperin protein degradation. Importantly, UBE4A deficiency restores Viperin protein production in epithelium. We then designed interfering peptides (IPs) to inhibit UBE4A binding with Viperin. We found that VIP-IP3 rescues Viperin protein production in epithelium and therefore enhances cellular antiviral activity. VIP-IP3 renders mice more resistant to viral infection. These findings could provide strategies for both enhancing host broad-spectrum antiviral response and improving the efficacy of IFN-based antiviral therapy."	1
"31968249"	"The Mitochondrial Protein MAVS Stabilizes p53 to Suppress Tumorigenesis.Recent reports have shown the critical role of the mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS) protein in virus-induced apoptosis, but the involvement of MAVS in tumorigenesis is still poorly understood. Herein, we report that MAVS is a key regulator of p53 activation and is critical for protecting against tumorigenesis. We find that MAVS promotes p53-dependent cell death in response to DNA damage. MAVS interacts with p53 and mediates p53 mitochondrial recruitment under genotoxic stress. Mechanistically, MAVS inhibits p53 ubiquitination by blocking the formation of the p53-murine double-minute 2 (MDM2) complex, leading to the stabilization of p53. Notably, compared with their wild-type littermates, MAVS knockout mice display decreased resistance to azoxymethane (AOM) or AOM/dextran sulfate sodium salt (DSS)-induced colon cancer. MAVS expression is significantly downregulated in human colon cancer tissues. These results unveil roles for MAVS in DNA damage response and tumor suppression."	1
"31914400"	"DEAD-Box Helicase 18 Counteracts PRC2 to Safeguard Ribosomal DNA in Pluripotency Regulation.Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) exhibit high levels of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) transcription and ribosome biogenesis. Here, we reveal an unexpected role for an essential DEAD-box helicase, DDX18, in antagonizing the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) to prevent deposition of the repressive H3K27me3 mark onto rDNA in pluripotent cells. DDX18 binds and sequesters PRC2 in the outer layer of the nucleolus and counteracts PRC2 complex formation in vivo and in vitro. DDX18 knockdown leads to increased occupancy of PRC2 and H3K27me3 at rDNA loci, accompanied by drastically decreased rRNA transcription and reduced ribosomal protein expression and translation. Auxin-induced rapid degradation of DDX18 enhances PRC2 binding at rDNA. The inhibition of PRC2 partially rescues the effects of DDX18 depletion on rRNA transcription and ESC self-renewal. These results demonstrate a critical role for DDX18 in safeguarding the chromatin and transcriptional integrity of rDNA by counteracting the epigenetic silencing machinery to promote pluripotency."	1
"31471188"	"CoBATCH for High-Throughput Single-Cell Epigenomic Profiling.An efficient, generalizable method for genome-wide mapping of single-cell histone modifications or chromatin-binding proteins is lacking. Here, we develop CoBATCH, combinatorial barcoding and targeted chromatin release, for single-cell profiling of genomic distribution of chromatin-binding proteins in cell culture and tissue. Protein A in fusion to Tn5 transposase is enriched through specific antibodies to genomic regions, and Tn5 generates indexed chromatin fragments ready for library preparation and sequencing. Importantly, this strategy enables not only low-input epigenomic profiling in intact tissues but also measures scalable up to tens of thousands of single cells per experiment under both native and cross-linked conditions. CoBATCH produces ∼12,000 reads/cell with extremely low background. Mapping of endothelial cell lineages from ten embryonic mouse organs through CoBATCH allows for efficient deciphering of epigenetic heterogeneity of cell populations and cis-regulatory mechanisms. Thus, obviating specialized devices, CoBATCH is broadly applicable and easily deployable for single-cell profiling of protein-DNA interactions."	0
"32142690"	"Mind the Gapmer: Implications of Co-transcriptional Cleavage by Antisense Oligonucleotides.While gapmers efficiently knock down as well as terminate transcription of nascent lncRNAs and mRNAs, Lee and Mendell (2020) and Lai et al. (2020) also demonstrate that Pol II termination is not observed with gapmers targeting the 3' terminal portions of the transcript."	0
"32521280"	"ELKS1 Captures Rab6-Marked Vesicular Cargo in Presynaptic Nerve Terminals.Neurons face unique transport challenges. They need to deliver cargo over long axonal distances and to many presynaptic nerve terminals. Rab GTPases are master regulators of vesicular traffic, but essential presynaptic Rabs have not been identified. Here, we find that Rab6, a Golgi-derived GTPase for constitutive secretion, associates with mobile axonal cargo and localizes to nerve terminals. ELKS1 is a stationary presynaptic protein with Golgin homology that binds to Rab6. Knockout and rescue experiments for ELKS1 and Rab6 establish that ELKS1 captures Rab6 cargo. The ELKS1-Rab6-capturing mechanism can be transferred to mitochondria by mistargeting ELKS1 or Rab6 to them. We conclude that nerve terminals have repurposed mechanisms from constitutive exocytosis for their highly regulated secretion. By employing Golgin-like mechanisms with anchored ELKS extending its coiled-coils to capture Rab6 cargo, they have spatially separated cargo capture from fusion. ELKS complexes connect to active zones and may mediate vesicle progression toward release sites."	1
"32649882"	"Tandem Deubiquitination and Acetylation of SPRTN Promotes DNA-Protein Crosslink Repair and Protects against Aging.DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are highly toxic DNA lesions that threaten genomic integrity. Recent findings highlight that SPRTN, a specialized DNA-dependent metalloprotease, is a central player in proteolytic cleavage of DPCs. Previous studies suggest that SPRTN deubiquitination is important for its chromatin association and activation. However, the regulation and consequences of SPRTN deubiquitination remain unclear. Here we report that, in response to DPC induction, the deubiquitinase VCPIP1/VCIP135 is phosphorylated and activated by ATM/ATR. VCPIP1, in turn, deubiquitinates SPRTN and promotes its chromatin relocalization. Deubiquitination of SPRTN is required for its subsequent acetylation, which promotes SPRTN relocation to the site of chromatin damage. Furthermore, Vcpip1 knockout mice are prone to genomic instability and premature aging. We propose a model where two sequential post-translational modifications (PTMs) regulate SPRTN chromatin accessibility to repair DPCs and maintain genomic stability and a healthy lifespan."	1
"32610121"	"Adipocyte-Derived Versican and Macrophage-Derived Biglycan Control Adipose Tissue Inflammation in Obesity.Obesity is characterized by adipose tissue inflammation. Because proteoglycans regulate inflammation, here we investigate their role in adipose tissue inflammation in obesity. We find that adipose tissue versican and biglycan increase in obesity. Versican is produced mainly by adipocytes and biglycan by adipose tissue macrophages. Both proteoglycans are also present in adipose tissue from obese human subjects undergoing gastric bypass surgery. Deletion of adipocyte-specific versican or macrophage-specific biglycan in mice reduces macrophage accumulation and chemokine and cytokine expression, although only adipocyte-specific versican deletion leads to sustained improvement in glucose tolerance. Macrophage-derived biglycan activates inflammatory genes in adipocytes. Versican expression increases in cultured adipocytes exposed to excess glucose, and adipocyte-conditioned medium stimulates inflammation in resident peritoneal macrophages, in part because of a versican breakdown product, versikine. These findings provide insights into the role of adipocyte- and macrophage-derived proteoglycans in adipose tissue inflammation in obesity."	0
"31914388"	"The Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Delta Regulates Developmental Neurogenesis.PTPRD is a receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase that is genetically associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we asked whether Ptprd mutations cause aberrant neural development by perturbing neurogenesis in the murine cortex. We show that loss of Ptprd causes increases in neurogenic transit-amplifying intermediate progenitor cells and cortical neurons and perturbations in neuronal localization. These effects are intrinsic to neural precursor cells since acute Ptprd knockdown causes similar perturbations. PTPRD mediates these effects by dephosphorylating receptor tyrosine kinases, including TrkB and PDGFRβ, and loss of Ptprd causes the hyperactivation of TrkB and PDGFRβ and their downstream MEK-ERK signaling pathway in neural precursor cells. Moreover, inhibition of aberrant TrkB or MEK activation rescues the increased neurogenesis caused by knockdown or homozygous loss of Ptprd. These results suggest that PTPRD regulates receptor tyrosine kinases to ensure appropriate numbers of intermediate progenitor cells and neurons, suggesting a mechanism for its genetic association with neurodevelopmental disorders."	1
"31973890"	"p53 Activates the Long Noncoding RNA Pvt1b to Inhibit Myc and Suppress Tumorigenesis.The tumor suppressor p53 transcriptionally activates target genes to suppress cellular proliferation during stress. p53 has also been implicated in the repression of the proto-oncogene Myc, but the mechanism has remained unclear. Here, we identify Pvt1b, a p53-dependent isoform of the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) Pvt1, expressed 50 kb downstream of Myc, which becomes induced by DNA damage or oncogenic signaling and accumulates near its site of transcription. We show that production of the Pvt1b RNA is necessary and sufficient to suppress Myc transcription in cis without altering the chromatin organization of the locus. Inhibition of Pvt1b increases Myc levels and transcriptional activity and promotes cellular proliferation. Furthermore, Pvt1b loss accelerates tumor growth, but not tumor progression, in an autochthonous mouse model of lung cancer. These findings demonstrate that Pvt1b acts at the intersection of the p53 and Myc transcriptional networks to reinforce the anti-proliferative activities of p53."	1
"32937140"	"Endogenous Cyclin D1 Promotes the Rate of Onset and Magnitude of Mitogenic Signaling via Akt1 Ser473 Phosphorylation.Cyclin D1 encodes the regulatory subunit of a holoenzyme that phosphorylates RB and functions as a collaborative nuclear oncogene. The serine threonine kinase Akt plays a pivotal role in the control of cellular metabolism, survival, and mitogenic signaling. Herein, Akt1-mediated phosphorylation of downstream substrates in the mammary gland is reduced by cyclin D1 genetic deletion and is induced by mammary-gland-targeted cyclin D1 overexpression. Cyclin D1 is associated with Akt1 and augments the rate of onset and maximal cellular Akt1 activity induced by mitogens. Cyclin D1 is identified in a cytoplasmic-membrane-associated pool, and cytoplasmic-membrane-localized cyclin D1-but not nuclear-localized cyclin D1-recapitulates Akt1 transcriptional function. These studies identify a novel extranuclear function of cyclin D1 to enhance proliferative functions via augmenting Akt1 phosphorylation at Ser473."	1
"32049021"	"CCL2 and CXCL12 Derived from Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Cooperatively Polarize IL-10+ Tissue Macrophages to Mitigate Gut Injury.Mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC)-based therapy for inflammatory diseases involves paracrine and efferocytotic activation of immunosuppressive interleukin-10<sup>+</sup> (IL-10<sup>+</sup>) macrophages. The paracrine pathway for MSC-mediated IL-10<sup>+</sup> macrophage functionality and response to tissue injury is not fully understood. In our present study, clodronate pre-treatment of colitic mice confirms the essential role of endogenous macrophages in bone-marrow-derived MSC (BM-MSC)-mediated clinical rescue of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. We identify that BM-MSC-secreted chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) and C-X-C motif chemokine 12 (CXCL12) cooperate as a heterodimer to upregulate IL-10 expression in CCR2<sup>+</sup> macrophages in vitro and that CCL2 expression by MSC is required for IL-10<sup>+</sup> polarization of intestinal and peritoneal resident macrophages in vivo. We observe that tissue macrophage IL-10 polarization in vivo is widespread involving extra-intestinal tissues and secondarily leads to bystander IL-10 expression in intestine-resident B and T cells. In conclusion, the BM-MSC-derived chemokine interactome dictates an IL-10<sup>+</sup>-macrophage-amplified anti-inflammatory response in toxic colitis."	0
"32320653"	"The Autophagy-Initiating Kinase ULK1 Controls RIPK1-Mediated Cell Death.Autophagy, apoptosis, and necroptosis are stress responses governing the ultimate fate of a cell. However, the crosstalk between these cellular stress responses is not entirely understood. Especially, it is not clear whether the autophagy-initiating kinase ULK1 and the cell-death-regulating kinase RIPK1 are involved in this potential crosstalk. Here, we identify RIPK1 as a substrate of ULK1. ULK1-dependent phosphorylation of RIPK1 reduces complex IIb/necrosome assembly and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced cell death, whereas deprivation of ULK1 enhances TNF-induced cell death. We observe that ULK1 phosphorylates multiple sites of RIPK1, but it appears that especially phosphorylation of S357 within the intermediate domain of RIPK1 mediates this cell-death-inhibiting effect. We propose that ULK1 is a regulator of RIPK1-mediated cell death."	1
"32049014"	"Hepatic DNAJB9 Drives Anabolic Biasing to Reduce Steatosis and Obesity.Nutrients stimulate the anabolic synthesis of proteins and lipids, but selective insulin resistance in obesity biases the anabolic program toward lipogenesis. Here, we report the identification of a DNAJB9-driven program that favors protein synthesis and energy production over lipid accumulation. We show there are two pools of DNAJB9 cochaperone. DNAJB9 in the ER lumen promotes the degradation of the lipogenic transcription factor SREBP1c through ERAD, whereas its counterpart on the ER membrane promotes the assembly of mTORC2 in the cytosol and stimulates the synthesis of proteins and ATP. The expression of Dnajb9 is induced by nutrients and downregulated in the obese mouse liver. Restoration of hepatic DNAJB9 expression effectively improves insulin sensitivity, restores protein synthesis, and suppresses food intake, accompanied by reduced hepatic steatosis and adiposity in multiple mouse models of obesity. Therefore, targeting the anabolic balance may provide a unique opportunity to tackle obesity and diabetes."	1
"31857346"	"CDK7 regulates organ size and tumor growth by safeguarding the Hippo pathway effector Yki/Yap/Taz in the nucleus.Hippo signaling controls organ size and tumor progression through a conserved pathway leading to nuclear translocation of the transcriptional effector Yki/Yap/Taz. Most of our understanding of Hippo signaling pertains to its cytoplasmic regulation, but how the pathway is controlled in the nucleus remains poorly understood. Here we uncover an evolutionarily conserved mechanism by which CDK7 promotes Yki/Yap/Taz stabilization in the nucleus to sustain Hippo pathway outputs. We found that a modular E3 ubiquitin ligase complex CRL4<sup>DCAF12</sup> binds and targets Yki/Yap/Taz for ubiquitination and degradation, whereas CDK7 phosphorylates Yki/Yap/Taz at S169/S128/S90 to inhibit CRL4<sup>DCAF12</sup> recruitment, leading to Yki/Yap/Taz stabilization. As a consequence, inactivation of CDK7 reduced organ size and inhibited tumor growth, which could be reversed by restoring Yki/Yap activity. Our study identifies an unanticipated layer of Hippo pathway regulation, defines a novel mechanism by which CDK7 regulates tissue growth, and implies CDK7 as a drug target for Yap/Taz-driven cancer."	1
"32783943"	"Acetylation Stabilizes Phosphoglycerate Dehydrogenase by Disrupting the Interaction of E3 Ligase RNF5 to Promote Breast Tumorigenesis.Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) is the first enzyme in the serine synthesis pathway in which it is also the rate-limiting enzyme. It is significantly upregulated in many cancers, especially breast cancer. However, the posttranslational mechanism of PHGDH upregulation in breast cancer is unknown. In this study, we find that RNF5, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is essential for the degradation of PHGDH protein. PHGDH is degraded by RNF5 to prevent the proliferation of breast cancer cells. The acetylation of PHGDH at K58 is able to disrupt the interaction of RNF5-PHGDH and promote the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Tip60 and SIRT2 regulate the reversible acetylation modification of PHGDH in response to glucose alteration. Moreover, PHGDH is significantly upregulated in samples of human breast cancer and is associated with decreased RNF5 expression. This implies a potential therapeutic target through the interference interaction of PHGDH-RNF5 to degrade PHGDH in breast cancer."	1
"32768407"	"The 3D Topography of Mitotic Chromosomes.A long-standing conundrum is how mitotic chromosomes can compact, as required for clean separation to daughter cells, while maintaining close parallel alignment of sister chromatids. Pursuit of this question, by high resolution 3D fluorescence imaging of living and fixed mammalian cells, has led to three discoveries. First, we show that the structural axes of separated sister chromatids are linked by evenly spaced ""mini-axis"" bridges. Second, when chromosomes first emerge as discrete units, at prophase, they are organized as co-oriented sister linear loop arrays emanating from a conjoined axis. We show that this same basic organization persists throughout mitosis, without helical coiling. Third, from prophase onward, chromosomes are deformed into sequential arrays of half-helical segments of alternating handedness (perversions), accompanied by correlated kinks. These arrays fluctuate dynamically over <15 s timescales. Together these discoveries redefine the foundation for thinking about the evolution of mitotic chromosomes as they prepare for anaphase segregation."	0
"32532820"	"Mediator complex subunit 16 is down-regulated in papillary thyroid cancer, leading to increased transforming growth factor-β signaling and radioiodine resistance.Mediator complex subunit 16 (MED16) is a component of the mediator complex and functions as a coactivator in transcriptional events at almost all RNA polymerase II-dependent genes. In this study, we report that the expression of MED16 is markedly decreased in papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) tumors compared with normal thyroid tissues. <i>In vitro</i>, MED16 overexpression in PTC cells significantly inhibited cell migration, enhanced sodium/iodide symporter expression and iodine uptake, and decreased resistance to radioactive <sup>131</sup>I (RAI). Conversely, PTC cells in which MED16 had been further knocked down (MED16<sup>KD</sup>) exhibited enhanced cell migration, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and RAI resistance, accompanied by decreased sodium/iodide symporter levels. Moreover, cell signaling through transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) was highly activated after the MED16 knockdown. Similar results were obtained in MED12<sup>KD</sup> PTC cells, and a co-immunoprecipitation experiment verified interactions between MED16 and MED12 and between MED16 and TGF-βR2. Of note, the application of LY2157299, a potent inhibitor of TGF-β signaling, significantly attenuated MED16<sup>KD</sup>-induced RAI resistance both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> In conclusion, our findings indicate that MED16 reduction in PTC contributes to tumor progression and RAI resistance via the activation of the TGF-β pathway."	1
"31806351"	"HMCES Functions in the Alternative End-Joining Pathway of the DNA DSB Repair during Class Switch Recombination in B Cells.HMCES (5hmC binding, embryonic stem cell-specific-protein), originally identified as a protein capable of binding 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), an epigenetic modification generated by TET proteins, was previously reported to covalently crosslink to DNA at abasic sites via a conserved cysteine. We show here that Hmces-deficient mice display normal hematopoiesis without global alterations in 5hmC. HMCES specifically enables DNA double-strand break repair through the microhomology-mediated alternative-end-joining (Alt-EJ) pathway during class switch recombination (CSR) in B cells, and HMCES deficiency leads to a significant defect in CSR. HMCES mediates Alt-EJ through its SOS-response-associated-peptidase domain (SRAPd), a function that requires DNA binding but is independent of its autopeptidase and DNA-crosslinking activities. We show that HMCES is recruited to switch regions of the immunoglobulin locus and provide a potential structural basis for the interaction of HMCES with long DNA overhangs generated by Alt-EJ during CSR. Our studies provide further evidence for a specialized role for HMCES in DNA repair."	0
"32460012"	"TGF-β-Induced Phosphorylation of Usp9X Stabilizes Ankyrin-G and Regulates Dendritic Spine Development and Maintenance.Signaling by the cytokine transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) has been implicated in a multitude of biological functions; however, TGF-β signaling, particularly in the CNS, remains largely unexplored. ANK3 variants (encoding ankyrin-G) are associated with bipolar disorder, intellectual disability, and autism spectrum disorder, while mutations in USP9X, which encodes a deubiquitinase, are associated with X-linked intellectual disability and autism in humans. Here, we show that TGF-β signaling promotes Usp9X phosphorylation, which enhances its interaction with ankyrin-G and stabilizes ankyrin-G in spines, leading to spine enlargement. Using in situ proximity ligation combined with structured illumination superresolution microscopy, we characterize the postsynaptic spatial organization of phosphorylation-dependent regulation of Usp9X/ankyrin-G interactions in dendrites and its quantitative relationship with spine morphology and number. These data reveal a cytokine-mediated mechanism regulating protein stability in spines and suggest a role for deubiquitination and TGF-β signaling in neurodevelopmental disorder pathogenesis and treatment."	1
"32719005"	"Structure of a collagen VI α3 chain VWA domain array: adaptability and functional implications of myopathy causing mutations.Collagen VI is a ubiquitous heterotrimeric protein of the extracellular matrix (ECM) that plays an essential role in the proper maintenance of skeletal muscle. Mutations in collagen VI lead to a spectrum of congenital myopathies, from the mild Bethlem myopathy to the severe Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. Collagen VI contains only a short triple helix and consists primarily of von Willebrand factor type A (VWA) domains, protein-protein interaction modules found in a range of ECM proteins. Disease-causing mutations occur commonly in the VWA domains, and the second VWA domain of the α3 chain, the N2 domain, harbors several such mutations. Here, we investigate structure-function relationships of the N2 mutations to shed light on their possible myopathy mechanisms. We determined the X-ray crystal structure of N2, combined with monitoring secretion efficiency in cell culture of selected N2 single-domain mutants, finding that mutations located within the central core of the domain severely affect secretion efficiency. In longer α3 chain constructs, spanning N6-N3, small-angle X-ray scattering demonstrates that the tandem VWA array has a modular architecture and samples multiple conformations in solution. Single-particle EM confirmed the presence of multiple conformations. Structural adaptability appears intrinsic to the VWA domain region of collagen VI α3 and has implications for binding interactions and modulating stiffness within the ECM."	0
"32493771"	"Picornaviral polymerase domain exchanges reveal a modular basis for distinct biochemical activities of viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases.Picornaviral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RdRPs) have low replication fidelity that is essential for viral fitness and evolution. Their global fold consists of the classical ""cupped right hand"" structure with palm, fingers, and thumb domains, and these RdRPs also possess a unique contact between the fingers and thumb domains. This interaction restricts movements of the fingers, and RdRPs use a subtle conformational change within the palm domain to close their active sites for catalysis. We have previously shown that this core RdRP structure and mechanism provide a platform for polymerases to fine-tune replication rates and fidelity to optimize virus fitness. Here, we further elucidated the structural basis for differences in replication rates and fidelity among different viruses by generating chimeric RdRPs from poliovirus and coxsackievirus B3. We designed these chimeric polymerases by exchanging the fingers, pinky finger, or thumb domains. The results of biochemical, rapid-quench, and stopped-flow assays revealed that differences in biochemical activity map to individual modular domains of this polymerase. We found that the pinky finger subdomain is a major regulator of initiation and that the palm domain is the major determinant of catalytic rate and nucleotide discrimination. We further noted that thumb domain interactions with product RNA regulate translocation and that the palm and thumb domains coordinately control elongation complex stability. Several RdRP chimeras supported the growth of infectious poliovirus, providing insights into enterovirus species-specific protein-protein interactions required for virus replication."	0
"31940492"	"FBXW7 Confers Radiation Survival by Targeting p53 for Degradation.The tumor suppressor p53 plays a critical role in integrating a wide variety of stress responses. Therefore, p53 levels are precisely regulated by multiple ubiquitin ligases. In this study, we report that FBXW7, a substrate recognition component of the SKP1-CUL1-F-box (SCF) E3 ligase, interacts with and targets p53 for polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation after exposure to ionizing radiation or etoposide. Mechanistically, DNA damage activates ATM to phosphorylate p53 on Ser33 and Ser37, which facilitates the FBXW7 binding and subsequent p53 degradation by SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup>. Inactivation of ATM or SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup> by small molecular inhibitors or genetic knockdown/knockout approaches extends the p53 protein half-life upon DNA damage in an MDM2-independent manner. Biologically, FBXW7 inactivation sensitizes cancer cells to radiation or etoposide by stabilizing p53 to induce cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. Taken together, our study elucidates a mechanism by which FBXW7 confers cancer cell survival during radiotherapy or chemotherapy via p53 targeting."	1
"32571875"	"PRL3 pseudophosphatase activity is necessary and sufficient to promote metastatic growth.Phosphatases of regenerating liver (PRLs) are markers of cancer and promote tumor growth. They have been implicated in a variety of biochemical pathways but the physiologically relevant target of phosphatase activity has eluded 20 years of investigation. Here, we show that PRL3 catalytic activity is not required in a mouse model of metastasis. PRL3 binds and inhibits CNNM4, a membrane protein associated with magnesium transport. Analysis of PRL3 mutants specifically defective in either CNNM-binding or phosphatase activity demonstrate that CNNM binding is necessary and sufficient to promote tumor metastasis. As PRLs do have phosphatase activity, they are in fact <i>pseudo</i>-pseudophosphatases. Phosphatase activity leads to formation of phosphocysteine, which blocks CNNM binding and may play a regulatory role. We show levels of PRL cysteine phosphorylation vary in response to culture conditions and in different tissues. Examination of related protein phosphatases shows the stability of phosphocysteine is a unique and evolutionarily conserved property of PRLs. The demonstration that PRL3 functions as a pseudophosphatase has important ramifications for the design of PRL inhibitors for cancer."	1
"30735654"	"R-Loops as Cellular Regulators and Genomic Threats.During transcription, the nascent RNA strand can base pair with its template DNA, displacing the non-template strand as ssDNA and forming a structure called an R-loop. R-loops are common across many domains of life and cause DNA damage in certain contexts. In this review, we summarize recent results implicating R-loops as important regulators of cellular processes such as transcription termination, gene regulation, and DNA repair. We also highlight recent work suggesting that R-loops can be problematic to cells as blocks to efficient transcription and replication that trigger the DNA damage response. Finally, we discuss how R-loops may contribute to cancer, neurodegeneration, and inflammatory diseases and compare the available next-generation sequencing-based approaches to map R-loops genome wide."	0
"30901563"	"Craving for Introns.Parenteau et al. (2019) and Morgan et al. (2019) showed that a subset of introns can work as non-coding RNAs that trap the spliceosome and decrease global splicing upon nutrient depletion in yeast, providing a new example of the functionality of introns, molecules that were previously assumed to be useless."	0
"32846135"	"Landscape of Exhausted Virus-Specific CD8 T Cells in Chronic LCMV Infection.A hallmark of chronic infections is the presence of exhausted CD8 T cells, characterized by a distinct transcriptional program compared with functional effector or memory cells, co-expression of multiple inhibitory receptors, and impaired effector function, mainly driven by recurrent T cell receptor engagement. In the context of chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection in mice, most studies focused on studying splenic virus-specific CD8 T cells. Here, we provide a detailed characterization of exhausted CD8 T cells isolated from six different tissues during established LCMV infection, using single-cell RNA sequencing. Our data reveal that exhausted cells are heterogeneous, adopt organ-specific transcriptomic profiles, and can be divided into five main functional subpopulations: advanced exhaustion, effector-like, intermediate, proliferating, or memory-like. Adoptive transfer experiments showed that these phenotypes are plastic, suggesting that the tissue microenvironment has a major impact in shaping the phenotype and function of virus-specific CD8 T cells during chronic infection."	0
"32234473"	"Nutlin-Induced Apoptosis Is Specified by a Translation Program Regulated by PCBP2 and DHX30.Activation of p53 by the small molecule Nutlin can result in a combination of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. The relative strength of these events is difficult to predict by classical gene expression analysis, leaving uncertainty as to the therapeutic benefits. In this study, we report a translational control mechanism shaping p53-dependent apoptosis. Using polysome profiling, we establish Nutlin-induced apoptosis to associate with the enhanced translation of mRNAs carrying multiple copies of an identified 3' UTR CG-rich motif mediating p53-dependent death (CGPD-motif). We identify PCBP2 and DHX30 as CGPD-motif interactors. We find that in cells undergoing persistent cell cycle arrest in response to Nutlin, CGPD-motif mRNAs are repressed by the PCBP2-dependent binding of DHX30 to the motif. Upon DHX30 depletion in these cells, the translation of CGPD-motif mRNAs increases, and the response to Nutlin shifts toward apoptosis. Instead, DHX30 inducible overexpression in SJSA1 cells leads to decreased translation of CGPD-motif mRNAs."	0
"32516599"	"Cell Death in the Origin and Treatment of Cancer.Cell death, or, more specifically, cell suicide, is a process of fundamental importance to human health. Throughout our lives, over a million cells are produced every second. When organismal growth has stopped, to balance cell division, a similar number of cells must be removed. This is achieved by activation of molecular mechanisms that have evolved so that cells can destroy themselves. The first clues regarding the nature of one of these mechanisms came from studying genes associated with cancer, in particular the gene for BCL-2. Subsequent studies revealed that mutations or other defects that inhibit cell death allow cells to accumulate, prevent removal of cells with damaged DNA, and increase the resistance of malignant cells to chemotherapy. Knowledge of this mechanism has allowed development of drugs that kill cancer cells by directly activating the cell death machinery and by synergizing with conventional chemotherapy as well as targeted agents to achieve improved outcomes for cancer patients."	0
"32023463"	"Oct4-Mediated Inhibition of Lsd1 Activity Promotes the Active and Primed State of Pluripotency Enhancers.An aberrant increase in pluripotency gene (PpG) expression due to enhancer reactivation could induce stemness and enhance the tumorigenicity of cancer stem cells. Silencing of PpG enhancers (PpGe) during embryonic stem cell differentiation involves Lsd1-mediated H3K4me1 demethylation and DNA methylation. Here, we observed retention of H3K4me1 and DNA hypomethylation at PpGe associated with a partial repression of PpGs in F9 embryonal carcinoma cells (ECCs) post-differentiation. H3K4me1 demethylation in F9 ECCs could not be rescued by Lsd1 overexpression. Given our observation that H3K4me1 demethylation is accompanied by strong Oct4 repression in P19 ECCs, we tested if Oct4 interaction with Lsd1 affects its catalytic activity. Our data show a dose-dependent inhibition of Lsd1 activity by Oct4 and retention of H3K4me1 at PpGe in Oct4-overexpressing P19 ECCs. These data suggest that Lsd1-Oct4 interaction in cancer stem cells could establish a ""primed"" enhancer state that is susceptible to reactivation, leading to aberrant PpG expression."	1
"31914389"	"STCH4/REIL2 Confers Cold Stress Tolerance in Arabidopsis by Promoting rRNA Processing and CBF Protein Translation.Plants respond to cold stress by inducing the expression of transcription factors that regulate downstream genes to confer tolerance to freezing. We screened an Arabidopsis transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion library and identified a cold-hypersensitive mutant, which we named stch4 (sensitive to chilling 4). STCH4/REIL2 encodes a ribosomal biogenesis factor that is upregulated upon cold stress. Overexpression of STCH4 confers chilling and freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis. The stch4 mutation reduces CBF protein levels and thus delayed the induction of C-repeat-binding factor (CBF) regulon genes. Ribosomal RNA processing is reduced in stch4 mutants, especially under cold stress. STCH4 associates with multiple ribosomal proteins, and these interactions are modulated by cold stress. These results suggest that the ribosome is a regulatory node for cold stress responses and that STCH4 promotes an altered ribosomal composition and functions in low temperatures to facilitate the translation of proteins important for plant growth and survival under cold stress."	1
"32059760"	"A Conserved Kinase-Based Body-Temperature Sensor Globally Controls Alternative Splicing and Gene Expression.Homeothermic organisms maintain their core body temperature in a narrow, tightly controlled range. Whether and how subtle circadian oscillations or disease-associated changes in core body temperature are sensed and integrated in gene expression programs remain elusive. Furthermore, a thermo-sensor capable of sensing the small temperature differentials leading to temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) in poikilothermic reptiles has not been identified. Here, we show that the activity of CDC-like kinases (CLKs) is highly responsive to physiological temperature changes, which is conferred by structural rearrangements within the kinase activation segment. Lower body temperature activates CLKs resulting in strongly increased phosphorylation of SR proteins in vitro and in vivo. This globally controls temperature-dependent alternative splicing and gene expression, with wide implications in circadian, tissue-specific, and disease-associated settings. This temperature sensor is conserved across evolution and adapted to growth temperatures of diverse poikilotherms. The dynamic temperature range of reptilian CLK homologs suggests a role in TSD."	1
"32611769"	"Methyltransferase-like 21C (METTL21C) methylates alanine tRNA synthetase at Lys-943 in muscle tissue.Protein-lysine methylation is a common posttranslational modification (PTM) throughout the human proteome that plays important roles in diverse biological processes. In humans, there are >100 known and candidate protein lysine methyltransferases (PKMTs), many of which are linked to human diseases. Methyltransferase-like protein 21C (METTL21C) is a PKMT implicated in muscle biology that has been reported to methylate valosin-containing protein/p97 (VCP) and heat shock 70-kDa protein 8 (HSPA8). However, a clear <i>in vitro</i> methyltransferase activity for METTL21C remains yet to be demonstrated, and whether it is an active enzyme that directly methylates substrate(s) <i>in vivo</i> is unclear. Here, we used an unbiased biochemistry-based screening assay coupled to MS, which identified alanine tRNA synthetase 1 (AARS1) as a direct substrate of METTL21C. We found that METTL21C catalyzes methylation of Lys-943 of AARS1 (AARS1-K943me) both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i><i>In vitro</i> METTL21C-mediated AARS1 methylation was independent of ATP or tRNA molecules. Unlike for AARS1, and in conflict with previous reports, we did not detect METTL21C methylation of VCP and HSPA8. AARS1-K943 methylation in HEK293T cells depends upon METTL21C levels. Finally, METTL2C was almost exclusively expressed in muscle tissue, and, accordingly, we detected METTL21C-catalyzed methylation of AARS1 in mouse skeletal muscle tissue. These results reveal that AARS1 is a <i>bona fide in vitro</i> substrate of METTL21C and suggest a role for the METTL21C-AARS1 axis in the regulation of protein synthesis in muscle tissue. Moreover, our study describes a straightforward protocol for elucidating the physiological substrates of poorly characterized or uncharacterized PKMTs."	1
"32937131"	"Extensive SUMO Modification of Repressive Chromatin Factors Distinguishes Pluripotent from Somatic Cells.Post-translational modification by SUMO is a key regulator of cell identity. In mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), SUMO impedes reprogramming to pluripotency, while in embryonic stem cells (ESCs), it represses the emergence of totipotent-like cells, suggesting that SUMO targets distinct substrates to preserve somatic and pluripotent states. Using MS-based proteomics, we show that the composition of endogenous SUMOylomes differs dramatically between MEFs and ESCs. In MEFs, SUMO2/3 targets proteins associated with canonical SUMO functions, such as splicing, and transcriptional regulators driving somatic enhancer selection. In contrast, in ESCs, SUMO2/3 primarily modifies highly interconnected repressive chromatin complexes, thereby preventing chromatin opening and transitioning to totipotent-like states. We also characterize several SUMO-modified pluripotency factors and show that SUMOylation of Dppa2 and Dppa4 impedes the conversion to 2-cell-embryo-like states. Altogether, we propose that rewiring the repertoire of SUMO target networks is a major driver of cell fate decision during embryonic development."	0
"31442426"	"Proximity RNA Labeling by APEX-Seq Reveals the Organization of Translation Initiation Complexes and Repressive RNA Granules.Diverse ribonucleoprotein complexes control mRNA processing, translation, and decay. Transcripts in these complexes localize to specific regions of the cell and can condense into non-membrane-bound structures such as stress granules. It has proven challenging to map the RNA composition of these large and dynamic structures, however. We therefore developed an RNA proximity labeling technique, APEX-seq, which uses the ascorbate peroxidase APEX2 to probe the spatial organization of the transcriptome. We show that APEX-seq can resolve the localization of RNAs within the cell and determine their enrichment or depletion near key RNA-binding proteins. Matching the spatial transcriptome, as revealed by APEX-seq, with the spatial proteome determined by APEX-mass spectrometry (APEX-MS), obtained precisely in parallel, provides new insights into the organization of translation initiation complexes on active mRNAs and unanticipated complexity in stress granule composition. Our novel technique allows a powerful and general approach to explore the spatial environment of macromolecules."	0
"32473093"	"Acetyl-CoA Derived from Hepatic Peroxisomal β-Oxidation Inhibits Autophagy and Promotes Steatosis via mTORC1 Activation.Autophagy is activated by prolonged fasting but cannot overcome the ensuing hepatic lipid overload, resulting in fatty liver. Here, we describe a peroxisome-lysosome metabolic link that restricts autophagic degradation of lipids. Acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (Acox1), the enzyme that catalyzes the first step in peroxisomal β-oxidation, is enriched in liver and further increases with fasting or high-fat diet (HFD). Liver-specific Acox1 knockout (Acox1-LKO) protected mice against hepatic steatosis caused by starvation or HFD due to induction of autophagic degradation of lipid droplets. Hepatic Acox1 deficiency markedly lowered total cytosolic acetyl-CoA levels, which led to decreased Raptor acetylation and reduced lysosomal localization of mTOR, resulting in impaired activation of mTORC1, a central regulator of autophagy. Dichloroacetic acid treatment elevated acetyl-CoA levels, restored mTORC1 activation, inhibited autophagy, and increased hepatic triglycerides in Acox1-LKO mice. These results identify peroxisome-derived acetyl-CoA as a key metabolic regulator of autophagy that controls hepatic lipid homeostasis."	0
"32690606"	"Tectorigenin enhances PDX1 expression and protects pancreatic β-cells by activating ERK and reducing ER stress.Pancreas/duodenum homeobox protein 1 (PDX1) is an important transcription factor that regulates islet β-cell proliferation, differentiation, and function. Reduced expression of PDX1 is thought to contribute to β-cell loss and dysfunction in diabetes. Thus, promoting PDX1 expression can be an effective strategy to preserve β-cell mass and function. Previously, we established a <i>PDX1</i> promoter-dependent luciferase system to screen agents that can promote PDX1 expression. Natural compound tectorigenin (TG) was identified as a promising candidate that could enhance the activity of the promoter for the <i>PDX1</i> gene. In this study, we first demonstrated that TG could promote the expression of PDX1 in β-cells via activating extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK), as indicated by increased phosphorylation of ERK; this effect was observed under either normal or glucotoxic/lipotoxic conditions. We then found that TG could suppress induced apoptosis and improved the viability of β-cells under glucotoxicity and lipotoxicity by activation of ERK and reduction of reactive oxygen species and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. These effects held true <i>in vivo</i> as well: prophylactic or therapeutic use of TG could obviously inhibit ER stress and decrease islet β-cell apoptosis in the pancreas of mice given a high-fat/high-sucrose diet (HFHSD), thus dramatically maintaining or restoring β-cell mass and islet size, respectively. Accordingly, both prophylactic and therapeutic use of TG improved HFHSD-impaired glucose metabolism in mice, as evidenced by ameliorating hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance. Taken together, TG, as an agent promoting PDX1 expression exhibits strong protective effects on islet β-cells both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i>."	1
"30853400"	"FIP200 Claw Domain Binding to p62 Promotes Autophagosome Formation at Ubiquitin Condensates.The autophagy cargo receptor p62 facilitates the condensation of misfolded, ubiquitin-positive proteins and their degradation by autophagy, but the molecular mechanism of p62 signaling to the core autophagy machinery is unclear. Here, we show that disordered residues 326-380 of p62 directly interact with the C-terminal region (CTR) of FIP200. Crystal structure determination shows that the FIP200 CTR contains a dimeric globular domain that we designated the ""Claw"" for its shape. The interaction of p62 with FIP200 is mediated by a positively charged pocket in the Claw, enhanced by p62 phosphorylation, mutually exclusive with the binding of p62 to LC3B, and it promotes degradation of ubiquitinated cargo by autophagy. Furthermore, the recruitment of the FIP200 CTR slows the phase separation of ubiquitinated proteins by p62 in a reconstituted system. Our data provide the molecular basis for a crosstalk between cargo condensation and autophagosome formation."	1
"32460013"	"MKRN2 Physically Interacts with GLE1 to Regulate mRNA Export and Zebrafish Retinal Development.The mammalian mRNA nuclear export process is thought to terminate at the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex through ribonucleoprotein remodeling. We conduct a stringent affinity-purification mass-spectrometry-based screen of the physical interactions of human RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligases. The resulting protein-interaction network reveals interactions between the RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase MKRN2 and GLE1, a DEAD-box helicase activator implicated in mRNA export termination. We assess MKRN2 epistasis with GLE1 in a zebrafish model. Morpholino-mediated knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9-based knockout of MKRN2 partially rescue retinal developmental defects seen upon GLE1 depletion, consistent with a functional association between GLE1 and MKRN2. Using ribonomic approaches, we show that MKRN2 binds selectively to the 3' UTR of a diverse subset of mRNAs and that nuclear export of MKRN2-associated mRNAs is enhanced upon knockdown of MKRN2. Taken together, we suggest that MKRN2 interacts with GLE1 to selectively regulate mRNA nuclear export and retinal development."	1
"32240602"	"Cdk1 Controls Global Epigenetic Landscape in Embryonic Stem Cells.The cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdk1) drives cell division. To uncover additional functions of Cdk1, we generated knockin mice expressing an analog-sensitive version of Cdk1 in place of wild-type Cdk1. In our study, we focused on embryonic stem cells (ESCs), because this cell type displays particularly high Cdk1 activity. We found that in ESCs, a large fraction of Cdk1 substrates is localized on chromatin. Cdk1 phosphorylates many proteins involved in epigenetic regulation, including writers and erasers of all major histone marks. Consistent with these findings, inhibition of Cdk1 altered histone-modification status of ESCs. High levels of Cdk1 in ESCs phosphorylate and partially inactivate Dot1l, the H3K79 methyltransferase responsible for placing activating marks on gene bodies. Decrease of Cdk1 activity during ESC differentiation de-represses Dot1l, thereby allowing coordinated expression of differentiation genes. These analyses indicate that Cdk1 functions to maintain the epigenetic identity of ESCs."	1
"32792353"	"The Daam2-VHL-Nedd4 axis governs developmental and regenerative oligodendrocyte differentiation.Dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS) enables pathogenic accumulation of disease-driving proteins in neurons across a host of neurological disorders. However, whether and how the UPS contributes to oligodendrocyte dysfunction and repair after white matter injury (WMI) remains undefined. Here we show that the E3 ligase VHL interacts with Daam2 and their mutual antagonism regulates oligodendrocyte differentiation during development. Using proteomic analysis of the Daam2-VHL complex coupled with conditional genetic knockout mouse models, we further discovered that the E3 ubiquitin ligase <i>Nedd4</i> is required for developmental myelination through stabilization of VHL via K63-linked ubiquitination. Furthermore, studies in mouse demyelination models and white matter lesions from patients with multiple sclerosis corroborate the function of this pathway during remyelination after WMI. Overall, these studies provide evidence that a signaling axis involving key UPS components contributes to oligodendrocyte development and repair and reveal a new role for <i>Nedd4</i> in glial biology."	1
"32101747"	"Class IIa Histone Deacetylases Drive Toll-like Receptor-Inducible Glycolysis and Macrophage Inflammatory Responses via Pyruvate Kinase M2.Histone deacetylases (HDACs) drive innate immune cell-mediated inflammation. Here we identify class IIa HDACs as key molecular links between Toll-like receptor (TLR)-inducible aerobic glycolysis and macrophage inflammatory responses. A proteomic screen identified the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M isoform 2 (Pkm2) as a partner of proinflammatory Hdac7 in murine macrophages. Myeloid-specific Hdac7 overexpression in transgenic mice amplifies lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-inducible lactate and promotes a glycolysis-associated inflammatory signature. Conversely, pharmacological or genetic targeting of Hdac7 and other class IIa HDACs attenuates LPS-inducible glycolysis and accompanying inflammatory responses in macrophages. We show that an Hdac7-Pkm2 complex acts as an immunometabolism signaling hub, whereby Pkm2 deacetylation at lysine 433 licenses its proinflammatory functions. Disrupting this complex suppresses inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Class IIa HDACs are thus pivotal intermediates connecting TLR-inducible glycolysis to inflammation via Pkm2."	1
"32640216"	"The Diabetes Gene JAZF1 Is Essential for the Homeostatic Control of Ribosome Biogenesis and Function in Metabolic Stress.The ability of pancreatic β-cells to respond to increased demands for insulin during metabolic stress critically depends on proper ribosome homeostasis and function. Excessive and long-lasting stimulation of insulin secretion can elicit endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, unfolded protein response, and β-cell apoptosis. Here we show that the diabetes susceptibility gene JAZF1 is a key transcriptional regulator of ribosome biogenesis, global protein, and insulin translation. JAZF1 is excluded from the nucleus, and its expression levels are reduced upon metabolic stress and in diabetes. Genetic deletion of Jazf1 results in global impairment of protein synthesis that is mediated by defects in ribosomal protein synthesis, ribosomal RNA processing, and aminoacyl-synthetase expression, thereby inducing ER stress and increasing β-cell susceptibility to apoptosis. Importantly, JAZF1 function and its pleiotropic actions are impaired in islets of murine T2D and in human islets exposed to metabolic stress. Our study identifies JAZF1 as a central mediator of metabolic stress in β-cells."	0
"31054974"	"Acetylation of PHF5A Modulates Stress Responses and Colorectal Carcinogenesis through Alternative Splicing-Mediated Upregulation of KDM3A.Alternative pre-mRNA-splicing-induced post-transcriptional gene expression regulation is one of the pathways for tumors maintaining proliferation rates accompanying the malignant phenotype under stress. Here, we uncover a list of hyperacetylated proteins in the context of acutely reduced Acetyl-CoA levels under nutrient starvation. PHF5A, a component of U2 snRNPs, can be acetylated at lysine 29 in response to multiple cellular stresses, which is dependent on p300. PHF5A acetylation strengthens the interaction among U2 snRNPs and affects global pre-mRNA splicing pattern and extensive gene expression. PHF5A hyperacetylation-induced alternative splicing stabilizes KDM3A mRNA and promotes its protein expression. Pathologically, PHF5A K29 hyperacetylation and KDM3A upregulation axis are correlated with poor prognosis of colon cancer. Our findings uncover a mechanism of an anti-stress pathway through which acetylation on PHF5A promotes the cancer cells' capacity for stress resistance and consequently contributes to colon carcinogenesis."	1
"32846130"	"BIRC2 Expression Impairs Anti-Cancer Immunity and Immunotherapy Efficacy.Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has led to therapeutic responses in some cancer patients for whom no effective treatment previously existed. ICB acts on T lymphocytes and other immune cells that are inactivated due to checkpoint signals that inhibit their infiltration and function within tumors. But for more than 80% of patients, immunotherapy has not been effective. Here, we demonstrate a cancer-cell-intrinsic mechanism of immune evasion and resistance to ICB mediated by baculoviral IAP repeat-containing 2 (BIRC2). Knockdown of BIRC2 expression in mouse melanoma or breast cancer cells increases expression of the chemokine CXCL9 and impairs tumor growth by increasing the number of intratumoral activated CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells. Administration of anti-CXCL9 neutralizing antibody inhibits the recruitment of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells to BIRC2-deficient tumors. Most importantly, BIRC2 deficiency dramatically increases the sensitivity of mouse melanoma and breast tumors to anti-CTLA4 and/or anti-PD1 ICB."	1
"31542297"	"Glutarylation of Histone H4 Lysine 91 Regulates Chromatin Dynamics.Histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) regulate chromatin structure and dynamics during various DNA-associated processes. Here, we report that lysine glutarylation (Kglu) occurs at 27 lysine residues on human core histones. Using semi-synthetic glutarylated histones, we show that an evolutionarily conserved Kglu at histone H4K91 destabilizes nucleosome in vitro. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the replacement of H4K91 by glutamate that mimics Kglu influences chromatin structure and thereby results in a global upregulation of transcription and defects in cell-cycle progression, DNA damage repair, and telomere silencing. In mammalian cells, H4K91glu is mainly enriched at promoter regions of highly expressed genes. A downregulation of H4K91glu is tightly associated with chromatin condensation during mitosis and in response to DNA damage. The cellular dynamics of H4K91glu is controlled by Sirt7 as a deglutarylase and KAT2A as a glutaryltransferase. This study designates a new histone mark (Kglu) as a new regulatory mechanism for chromatin dynamics."	1
"30898438"	"MDC1 Interacts with TOPBP1 to Maintain Chromosomal Stability during Mitosis.In mitosis, cells inactivate DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathways to preserve genome stability. However, some early signaling events still occur, such as recruitment of the scaffold protein MDC1 to phosphorylated histone H2AX at DSBs. Yet, it remains unclear whether these events are important for maintaining genome stability during mitosis. Here, we identify a highly conserved protein-interaction surface in MDC1 that is phosphorylated by CK2 and recognized by the DNA-damage response mediator protein TOPBP1. Disruption of MDC1-TOPBP1 binding causes a specific loss of TOPBP1 recruitment to DSBs in mitotic but not interphase cells, accompanied by mitotic radiosensitivity, increased micronuclei, and chromosomal instability. Mechanistically, we find that TOPBP1 forms filamentous structures capable of bridging MDC1 foci in mitosis, indicating that MDC1-TOPBP1 complexes tether DSBs until repair is reactivated in the following G1 phase. Thus, we reveal an important, hitherto-unnoticed cooperation between MDC1 and TOPBP1 in maintaining genome stability during cell division."	1
"30981631"	"C9orf72 Poly(PR) Dipeptide Repeats Disturb Biomolecular Phase Separation and Disrupt Nucleolar Function.Repeat expansion in the C9orf72 gene is the most common cause of the neurodegenerative disorder amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (C9-ALS) and is linked to the unconventional translation of five dipeptide-repeat polypeptides (DPRs). The two enriched in arginine, poly(GR) and poly(PR), infiltrate liquid-like nucleoli, co-localize with the nucleolar protein nucleophosmin (NPM1), and alter the phase separation behavior of NPM1 in vitro. Here, we show that poly(PR) DPRs bind tightly to a long acidic tract within the intrinsically disordered region of NPM1, altering its phase separation with nucleolar partners to the extreme of forming large, soluble complexes that cause droplet dissolution in vitro. In cells, poly(PR) DPRs disperse NPM1 from nucleoli and entrap rRNA in static condensates in a DPR-length-dependent manner. We propose that R-rich DPR toxicity involves disrupting the role of phase separation by NPM1 in organizing ribosomal proteins and RNAs within the nucleolus."	0
"31940495"	"Targeting the Oncogenic Long Non-coding RNA SLNCR1 by Blocking Its Sequence-Specific Binding to the Androgen Receptor.Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are critical regulators of numerous physiological processes and diseases, especially cancers. However, development of lncRNA-based therapies is limited because the mechanisms of many lncRNAs are obscure, and interactions with functional partners, including proteins, remain uncharacterized. The lncRNA SLNCR1 binds to and regulates the androgen receptor (AR) to mediate melanoma invasion and proliferation in an androgen-independent manner. Here, we use biochemical analyses coupled with selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension (SHAPE) RNA structure probing to show that the N-terminal domain of AR binds a pyrimidine-rich motif in an unstructured region of SLNCR1. This motif is predictive of AR binding, as we identify an AR-binding motif in lncRNA HOXA11-AS-203. Oligonucleotides that bind either the AR N-terminal domain or the AR RNA motif block the SLNCR1-AR interaction and reduce SLNCR1-mediated melanoma invasion. Delivery of oligos that block SLNCR1-AR interaction thus represent a plausible therapeutic strategy."	0
"32668254"	"Antagonistic Activities of Vegfr3/Flt4 and Notch1b Fine-tune Mechanosensitive Signaling during Zebrafish Cardiac Valvulogenesis.The formation of cardiac valves depends on mechanical forces exerted by blood flow. Endocardial cells lining the interior of the heart are sensitive to these stimuli and respond by rearranging into luminal cells subjected to shear stress and abluminal cells not exposed to it. The mechanisms by which endocardial cells sense these dynamic biomechanical stimuli and how they evoke different cellular responses are largely unknown. Here, we show that blood flow activates two parallel mechanosensitive pathways, one mediated by Notch and the other by Klf2a. Both pathways negatively regulate the angiogenesis receptor Vegfr3/Flt4, which becomes restricted to abluminal endocardial cells. Its loss disrupts valve morphogenesis and results in the occurrence of Notch signaling within abluminal endocardial cells. Our work explains how antagonistic activities by Vegfr3/Flt4 on the abluminal side and by Notch on the luminal side shape cardiac valve leaflets by triggering unique differences in the fates of endocardial cells."	1
"31494034"	"Decreased Enhancer-Promoter Proximity Accompanying Enhancer Activation.Enhancers can regulate the promoters of their target genes over very large genomic distances. It is widely assumed that mechanisms of enhancer action involve the reorganization of three-dimensional chromatin architecture, but this is poorly understood. The predominant model involves physical enhancer-promoter interaction by looping out the intervening chromatin. However, studying the enhancer-driven activation of the Sonic hedgehog gene (Shh), we have identified a change in chromosome conformation that is incompatible with this simple looping model. Using super-resolution 3D-FISH and chromosome conformation capture, we observe a decreased spatial proximity between Shh and its enhancers during the differentiation of embryonic stem cells to neural progenitors. We show that this can be recapitulated by synthetic enhancer activation, is impeded by chromatin-bound proteins located between the enhancer and the promoter, and appears to involve the catalytic activity of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. Our data suggest that models of enhancer-promoter communication need to encompass chromatin conformations other than looping."	0
"31668496"	"The NADH Dehydrogenase Nde1 Executes Cell Death after Integrating Signals from Metabolism and Proteostasis on the Mitochondrial Surface.The proteolytic turnover of mitochondrial proteins is poorly understood. Here, we used a combination of dynamic isotope labeling and mass spectrometry to gain a global overview of mitochondrial protein turnover in yeast cells. Intriguingly, we found an exceptionally high turnover of the NADH dehydrogenase, Nde1. This homolog of the mammalian apoptosis inducing factor, AIF, forms two distinct topomers in mitochondria, one residing in the intermembrane space while the other spans the outer membrane and is exposed to the cytosol. The surface-exposed topomer triggers cell death in response to pro-apoptotic stimuli. The surface-exposed topomer is degraded by the cytosolic proteasome/Cdc48 system and the mitochondrial protease Yme1; however, it is strongly enriched in respiratory-deficient cells. Our data suggest that in addition to their role in electron transfer, mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenases such as Nde1 or AIF integrate signals from energy metabolism and cytosolic proteostasis to eliminate compromised cells from growing populations."	0
"31128943"	"RNA Targets Ribogenesis Factor WDR43 to Chromatin for Transcription and Pluripotency Control.Transcription regulation underlies stem cell function and development. Here, we elucidate an unexpected role of an essential ribogenesis factor, WDR43, as a chromatin-associated RNA-binding protein (RBP) and release factor in modulating the polymerase (Pol) II activity for pluripotency regulation. WDR43 binds prominently to promoter-associated noncoding/nascent RNAs, occupies thousands of gene promoters and enhancers, and interacts with the Pol II machinery in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Nascent transcripts and transcription recruit WDR43 to active promoters, where WDR43 facilitates releases of the elongation factor P-TEFb and paused Pol II. Knockdown of WDR43 causes genome-wide defects in Pol II release and pluripotency-associated gene expression. Importantly, auxin-mediated rapid degradation of WDR43 drastically reduces Pol II activity, precluding indirect consequences. These results reveal an RNA-mediated recruitment and feedforward regulation on transcription and demonstrate an unforeseen role of an RBP in promoting Pol II elongation and coordinating high-level transcription and translation in ESC pluripotency."	0
"32492428"	"Stage-Specific Requirement for Eomes in Mature NK Cell Homeostasis and Cytotoxicity.Natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) that mediate antiviral and antitumor responses and require the transcriptional regulator Eomesodermin (Eomes) for early development. However, the role of Eomes and its molecular program in mature NK cell biology is unclear. To address this, we develop a tamoxifen-inducible, type-1-ILC-specific (Ncr1-targeted) cre mouse and combine this with Eomes-floxed mice. Eomes deletion after normal NK cell ontogeny results in a rapid loss of NK cells (but not ILC1s), with a particularly profound effect on penultimately mature stage III NK cells. Mechanisms responsible for stage III reduction include increased apoptosis and impaired maturation from stage II precursors. Induced Eomes deletion also decreases NK cell cytotoxicity and abrogates in vivo rejection of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-class-I-deficient cells. However, other NK cell functional responses, and stage IV NK cells, are largely preserved. These data indicate that mature NK cells have distinct Eomes-dependent and -independent stages."	0
"31968254"	"Periostin Promotes Colorectal Tumorigenesis through Integrin-FAK-Src Pathway-Mediated YAP/TAZ Activation.Periostin is a multifunctional extracellular matrix protein involved in various inflammatory diseases and tumor metastasis; however, evidence regarding whether and how periostin actively contributes to inflammation-associated tumorigenesis remains elusive. Here, we demonstrate that periostin deficiency significantly inhibits the occurrence of colorectal cancer in azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium-treated mice and in Apc<sup>Min/+</sup> mice. Moreover, periostin deficiency attenuates the severity of colitis and reduces the proliferation of tumor cells. Mechanistically, stromal fibroblast-derived periostin activates FAK-Src kinases through integrin-mediated outside-in signaling, which results in the activation of YAP/TAZ and, subsequently, IL-6 expression in tumor cells. Conversely, IL-6 induces periostin expression in fibroblasts by activating STAT3, which ultimately facilitates colorectal tumor development. These findings provide the evidence that periostin promotes colorectal tumorigenesis, and identify periostin- and IL-6-mediated tumor-stroma interaction as a promising target for treating colitis-associated colorectal cancer."	1
"32320652"	"Rational Design of Allosteric and Selective Inhibitors of the Molecular Chaperone TRAP1.TRAP1 is the mitochondrial paralog of the heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) chaperone family. Its activity as an energy metabolism regulator has important implications in cancer, neurodegeneration, and ischemia. Selective inhibitors of TRAP1 could inform on its mechanisms of action and set the stage for targeted drug development, but their identification was hampered by the similarity among active sites in HSP90 homologs. We use a dynamics-based approach to identify a TRAP1 allosteric pocket distal to its active site that can host drug-like molecules, and we select small molecules with optimal stereochemical features to target the pocket. These leads inhibit TRAP1, but not HSP90, ATPase activity and revert TRAP1-dependent downregulation of succinate dehydrogenase activity in cancer cells and in zebrafish larvae. TRAP1 inhibitors are not toxic per se, but they abolish tumorigenic growth of neoplastic cells. Our results indicate that exploiting conformational dynamics can expand the chemical space of chaperone antagonists to TRAP1-specific inhibitors with wide therapeutic opportunities."	0
"32610138"	"Structure of Human ATG9A, the Only Transmembrane Protein of the Core Autophagy Machinery.Autophagy is a catabolic process involving capture of cytoplasmic materials into double-membraned autophagosomes that subsequently fuse with lysosomes for degradation of the materials by lysosomal hydrolases. One of the least understood components of the autophagy machinery is the transmembrane protein ATG9. Here, we report a cryoelectron microscopy structure of the human ATG9A isoform at 2.9-Å resolution. The structure reveals a fold with a homotrimeric domain-swapped architecture, multiple membrane spans, and a network of branched cavities, consistent with ATG9A being a membrane transporter. Mutational analyses support a role for the cavities in the function of ATG9A. In addition, structure-guided molecular simulations predict that ATG9A causes membrane bending, explaining the localization of this protein to small vesicles and highly curved edges of growing autophagosomes."	0
"30415948"	"A Nucleosome Bridging Mechanism for Activation of a Maintenance DNA Methyltransferase.DNA methylation and H3K9me are hallmarks of heterochromatin in plants and mammals, and are successfully maintained across generations. The biochemical and structural basis for this maintenance is poorly understood. The maintenance DNA methyltransferase from Zea mays, ZMET2, recognizes dimethylation of H3K9 via a chromodomain (CD) and a bromo adjacent homology (BAH) domain, which flank the catalytic domain. Here, we show that dinucleosomes are the preferred ZMET2 substrate, with DNA methylation preferentially targeted to linker DNA. Electron microscopy shows one ZMET2 molecule bridging two nucleosomes within a dinucleosome. We find that the CD stabilizes binding, whereas the BAH domain enables allosteric activation by the H3K9me mark. ZMET2 further couples recognition of H3K9me to an increase in the specificity for hemimethylated versus unmethylated DNA. We propose a model in which synergistic coupling between recognition of nucleosome spacing, H3K9 methylation, and DNA modification allows ZMET2 to maintain DNA methylation in heterochromatin with high fidelity."	0
"31708417"	"ATR Protects the Genome against R Loops through a MUS81-Triggered Feedback Loop.R loops arising during transcription induce genomic instability, but how cells respond to the R loop-associated genomic stress is still poorly understood. Here, we show that cells harboring high levels of R loops rely on the ATR kinase for survival. In response to aberrant R loop accumulation, the ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR)-Chk1 pathway is activated by R loop-induced reversed replication forks. In contrast to the activation of ATR by replication inhibitors, R loop-induced ATR activation requires the MUS81 endonuclease. ATR protects the genome from R loops by suppressing transcription-replication collisions, promoting replication fork recovery, and enforcing a G2/M cell-cycle arrest. Furthermore, ATR prevents excessive cleavage of reversed forks by MUS81, revealing a MUS81-triggered and ATR-mediated feedback loop that fine-tunes MUS81 activity at replication forks. These results suggest that ATR is a key sensor and suppressor of R loop-induced genomic instability, uncovering a signaling circuitry that safeguards the genome against R loops."	1
"32616520"	"Identification of a localized nonsense-mediated decay pathway at the endoplasmic reticulum.Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a translation-dependent RNA quality control mechanism that occurs in the cytoplasm. However, it is unknown how NMD regulates the stability of RNAs translated at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here, we identify a localized NMD pathway dedicated to ER-translated mRNAs. We previously identified NBAS, a component of the Syntaxin 18 complex involved in Golgi-to-ER trafficking, as a novel NMD factor. Furthermore, we show that NBAS fulfills an independent function in NMD. This ER-NMD pathway requires the interaction of NBAS with the core NMD factor UPF1, which is partially localized at the ER in the proximity of the translocon. NBAS and UPF1 coregulate the stability of ER-associated transcripts, in particular those associated with the cellular stress response. We propose a model where NBAS recruits UPF1 to the membrane of the ER and activates an ER-dedicated NMD pathway, thus providing an ER-protective function by ensuring quality control of ER-translated mRNAs."	1
"32348764"	"Complex Genetic Architecture Underlies Regulation of Influenza-A-Virus-Specific Antibody Responses in the Collaborative Cross.Host genetic factors play a fundamental role in regulating humoral immunity to viral infection, including influenza A virus (IAV). Here, we utilize the Collaborative Cross (CC), a mouse genetic reference population, to study genetic regulation of variation in antibody response following IAV infection. CC mice show significant heritable variation in the magnitude, kinetics, and composition of IAV-specific antibody response. We map 23 genetic loci associated with this variation. Analysis of a subset of these loci finds that they broadly affect the antibody response to IAV as well as other viruses. Candidate genes are identified based on predicted variant consequences and haplotype-specific expression patterns, and several show overlap with genes identified in human mapping studies. These findings demonstrate that the host antibody response to IAV infection is under complex genetic control and highlight the utility of the CC in modeling and identifying genetic factors with translational relevance to human health and disease."	0
"32579935"	"Small Molecule Dysregulation of TEAD Lipidation Induces a Dominant-Negative Inhibition of Hippo Pathway Signaling.The transcriptional enhanced associate domain (TEAD) family of transcription factors serves as the receptors for the downstream effectors of the Hippo pathway, YAP and TAZ, to upregulate the expression of multiple genes involved in cellular proliferation and survival. Recent work identified TEAD S-palmitoylation as critical for protein stability and activity as the lipid tail extends into a hydrophobic core of the protein. Here, we report the identification and characterization of a potent small molecule that binds the TEAD lipid pocket (LP) and disrupts TEAD S-palmitoylation. Using a variety of biochemical, structural, and cellular methods, we uncover that TEAD S-palmitoylation functions as a TEAD homeostatic protein level checkpoint and that dysregulation of this lipidation affects TEAD transcriptional activity in a dominant-negative manner. Furthermore, we demonstrate that targeting the TEAD LP is a promising therapeutic strategy for modulating the Hippo pathway, showing tumor stasis in a mouse xenograft model."	0
"32619468"	"A Contaminant Impurity, Not Rigosertib, Is a Tubulin Binding Agent.Rigosertib is a styryl benzyl sulfone that inhibits growth of tumor cells and acts as a RAS mimetic by binding to Ras binding domains of RAS effectors. A recent study attributed rigosertib's mechanism of action to microtubule binding. In that study, rigosertib was obtained from a commercial vendor. We compared the purity of clinical-grade and commercially sourced rigosertib and found that commercially sourced rigosertib contains approximately 5% ON01500, a potent inhibitor of tubulin polymerization. Clinical-grade rigosertib, which is free of this impurity, does not exhibit tubulin-binding activity. Cell lines expressing mutant β-tubulin have also been reported to be resistant to rigosertib. However, our study showed that these cells failed to proliferate in the presence of rigosertib at concentrations that are lethal to wild-type cells. Rigosertib induced a senescence-like phenotype in the small percentage of surviving cells, which could be incorrectly scored as resistant using short-term cultures."	0
"32485148"	"ERK2 Phosphorylates PFAS to Mediate Posttranslational Control of De Novo Purine Synthesis.The RAS-ERK/MAPK (RAS-extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway integrates growth-promoting signals to stimulate cell growth and proliferation, at least in part, through alterations in metabolic gene expression. However, examples of direct and rapid regulation of the metabolic pathways by the RAS-ERK pathway remain elusive. We find that physiological and oncogenic ERK signaling activation leads to acute metabolic flux stimulation through the de novo purine synthesis pathway, thereby increasing building block availability for RNA and DNA synthesis, which is required for cell growth and proliferation. We demonstrate that ERK2, but not ERK1, phosphorylates the purine synthesis enzyme PFAS (phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase) at T619 in cells to stimulate de novo purine synthesis. The expression of nonphosphorylatable PFAS (T619A) decreases purine synthesis, RAS-dependent cancer cell-colony formation, and tumor growth. Thus, ERK2-mediated PFAS phosphorylation facilitates the increase in nucleic acid synthesis required for anabolic cell growth and proliferation."	1
"31995728"	"AMPK, a Regulator of Metabolism and Autophagy, Is Activated by Lysosomal Damage via a Novel Galectin-Directed Ubiquitin Signal Transduction System.AMPK is a central regulator of metabolism and autophagy. Here we show how lysosomal damage activates AMPK. This occurs via a hitherto unrecognized signal transduction system whereby cytoplasmic sentinel lectins detect membrane damage leading to ubiquitination responses. Absence of Galectin 9 (Gal9) or loss of its capacity to recognize lumenal glycans exposed during lysosomal membrane damage abrogate such ubiquitination responses. Proteomic analyses with APEX2-Gal9 have revealed global changes within the Gal9 interactome during lysosomal damage. Gal9 association with lysosomal glycoproteins increases whereas interactions with a newly identified Gal9 partner, deubiquitinase USP9X, diminishes upon lysosomal injury. In response to damage, Gal9 displaces USP9X from complexes with TAK1 and promotes K63 ubiquitination of TAK1 thus activating AMPK on damaged lysosomes. This triggers autophagy and contributes to autophagic control of membrane-damaging microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Thus, galectin and ubiquitin systems converge to activate AMPK and autophagy during endomembrane homeostasis."	1
"31561952"	"Heat Shock Factor 1 Is a Direct Antagonist of AMP-Activated Protein Kinase.Through transcriptional control of the evolutionarily conserved heat shock, or proteotoxic stress, response, heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) preserves proteomic stability. Here, we show that HSF1, a physiological substrate for AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), constitutively suppresses this central metabolic sensor. By physically evoking conformational switching of AMPK, HSF1 impairs AMP binding to the γ subunits and enhances the PP2A-mediated de-phosphorylation, but it impedes the LKB1-mediated phosphorylation of Thr172, and retards ATP binding to the catalytic α subunits. These immediate and manifold regulations empower HSF1 to both repress AMPK under basal conditions and restrain its activation by diverse stimuli, thereby promoting lipogenesis, cholesterol synthesis, and protein cholesteroylation. In vivo, HSF1 antagonizes AMPK to control body fat mass and drive the lipogenic phenotype and growth of melanomas independently of its intrinsic transcriptional action. Thus, the physical AMPK-HSF1 interaction epitomizes a reciprocal kinase-substrate regulation whereby lipid metabolism and proteomic stability intertwine."	1
"32209457"	"Cardiolipin's Remodeling Rules Revealed: The Role of the Cellular Lipidome.In this issue of Cell Reports, Oemer et al. (2020) define the acyl chain composition of cardiolipin and other lipid classes in murine tissues. They then employ artificial neural networks to predict mechanisms that govern cardiolipin tissue specificity, with implications for understanding cellular pathogenesis in human disease."	0
"32294444"	"In Vitro Generation of Leishmania Hybrids.Protozoan parasites in the genus Leishmania produce a broad spectrum of diseases in their human hosts. The strain and species-specific genes controlling these diverse clinical outcomes have remained poorly tractable using reverse genetics approaches. A cryptic sexual cycle involving a meiotic-like process has been described in Leishmania but is so far confined to parasites growing in the sand fly vector. Here, we describe the reproducible in vitro generation of hybrid clones using axenic culture forms of Leishmania tropica promastigotes. Analysis of SNPs marker inheritance and whole-genome sequencing data indicate that the progeny clones are full genomic hybrids. The demonstration that mating-competent forms arise in culture should facilitate experimental study of the mating biology of Leishmania and the generation of large numbers of recombinant parasites for positional cloning of important genes."	0
"31353208"	"Systematic Detection of Amino Acid Substitutions in Proteomes Reveals Mechanistic Basis of Ribosome Errors and Selection for Translation Fidelity.The translation machinery and the genes it decodes co-evolved to achieve production throughput and accuracy. Nonetheless, translation errors are frequent, and they affect physiology and protein evolution. Mapping translation errors in proteomes and understanding their causes is hindered by lack of a proteome-wide experimental methodology. We present the first methodology for systematic detection and quantification of errors in entire proteomes. Following proteome mass spectrometry, we identify, in E. coli and yeast, peptides whose mass indicates specific amino acid substitutions. Most substitutions result from codon-anticodon mispairing. Errors occur at sites that evolve rapidly and that minimally affect energetic stability, indicating selection for high translation fidelity. Ribosome density data show that errors occur at sites where ribosome velocity is higher, demonstrating a trade-off between speed and accuracy. Treating bacteria with an aminoglycoside antibiotic or deprivation of specific amino acids resulted in particular patterns of errors. These results reveal a mechanistic and evolutionary basis for translation fidelity."	0
"32559425"	"The Cycle of Basic and Applied Cancer Research."	0
"31995751"	"Vibrio cholerae-Symbiont Interactions Inhibit Intestinal Repair in Drosophila.Pathogen-mediated damage to the intestinal epithelium activates compensatory growth and differentiation repair programs in progenitor cells. Accelerated progenitor growth replenishes damaged tissue and maintains barrier integrity. Despite the importance of epithelial renewal to intestinal homeostasis, we know little about the effects of pathogen-commensal interactions on progenitor growth. We find that the enteric pathogen Vibrio cholerae blocks critical growth and differentiation pathways in Drosophila progenitors, despite extensive damage to epithelial tissue. We show that the inhibition of epithelial repair requires interactions between the Vibrio cholerae type six secretion system and a community of common symbiotic bacteria, as elimination of the gut microbiome is sufficient to restore homeostatic growth in infected intestines. This work highlights the importance of pathogen-symbiont interactions for intestinal immune responses and outlines the impact of the type six secretion system on pathogenesis."	0
"32665402"	"Mechanisms determining a differential threshold for sensing Src family kinase activity by B and T cell antigen receptors.Although signal transduction by immunoreceptors such as the T cell antigen receptor (TCR), B cell antigen receptor (BCR), and Fc receptors uses the same schematic and similar molecules, the threshold and the fine-tuning are set differently for each receptor. One manifestation of these differences is that inhibition of Src family kinases (SFK) blocks TCR but not BCR signaling. SFKs are key kinases phosphorylating immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAM) in both these receptors. However, it has been proposed that in B cells, downstream kinase SYK can phosphorylate ITAM sequences independently of SFK, allowing it to compensate for the loss of SFK activity, whereas its T cell paralog ZAP-70 is not capable of this compensation. To test this proposal, we examined signaling in SYK- and ZAP-70-deficient B and T cell lines expressing SYK or ZAP-70. We also analyzed signal transduction in T cells expressing BCR or B cells expressing part of the TCR complex. We show that when compared with ZAP-70, SYK lowered the threshold for SFK activity necessary to initiate antigen receptor signaling in both T and B cells. However, neither SYK nor ZAP-70 were able to initiate signaling independently of SFK. We further found that additional important factors are involved in setting this threshold. These include differences between the antigen receptor complexes themselves and the spatial separation of the key transmembrane adaptor protein LAT from the TCR. Thus, immunoreceptor sensing of SFK activity is a complex process regulated at multiple levels."	0
"32101751"	"TIFAB Regulates USP15-Mediated p53 Signaling during Stressed and Malignant Hematopoiesis.TRAF-interacting protein with a forkhead-associated domain B (TIFAB) is implicated in myeloid malignancies with deletion of chromosome 5q. Employing a combination of proteomic and genetic approaches, we find that TIFAB regulates ubiquitin-specific peptidase 15 (USP15) ubiquitin hydrolase activity. Expression of TIFAB in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) permits USP15 signaling to substrates, including MDM2 and KEAP1, and mitigates p53 expression. Consequently, TIFAB-deficient HSPCs exhibit compromised USP15 signaling and are sensitized to hematopoietic stress by derepression of p53. In MLL-AF9 leukemia, deletion of TIFAB increases p53 signaling and correspondingly decreases leukemic cell function and development of leukemia. Restoring USP15 expression partially rescues the function of TIFAB-deficient MLL-AF9 cells. Conversely, elevated TIFAB represses p53, increases leukemic progenitor function, and correlates with MLL gene expression programs in leukemia patients. Our studies uncover a function of TIFAB as an effector of USP15 activity and rheostat of p53 signaling in stressed and malignant HSPCs."	1
"31027879"	"Coordinated Conformational Processing of the Tumor Suppressor Protein p53 by the Hsp70 and Hsp90 Chaperone Machineries.p53, the guardian of the genome, requires chaperoning by Hsp70 and Hsp90. However, how the two chaperone machineries affect p53 conformation and regulate its function remains elusive. We found that Hsp70, together with Hsp40, unfolds p53 in an ATP-dependent reaction. This unfolded state of p53 is susceptible to aggregation after release induced by the nucleotide exchange factor Bag-1. However, when Hsp90 and the adaptor protein Hop are present, p53 is transferred from Hsp70 to Hsp90, allowing restoration of the native state upon ATP hydrolysis. Our results suggest that the p53 conformation is constantly remodeled by the two major chaperone machineries. This connects p53 activity to stress, and the levels of free molecular chaperones are important factors regulating p53 activity. Together, our findings reveal an intricate interplay and cooperation of Hsp70 and Hsp90 in regulating the conformation of a client."	1
"31757757"	"Dynamic Imaging of RNA in Living Cells by CRISPR-Cas13 Systems.Visualizing the location and dynamics of RNAs in live cells is key to understanding their function. Here, we identify two endonuclease-deficient, single-component programmable RNA-guided and RNA-targeting Cas13 RNases (dCas13s) that allow robust real-time imaging and tracking of RNAs in live cells, even when using single 20- to 27-nt-long guide RNAs. Compared to the aptamer-based MS2-MCP strategy, an optimized dCas13 system is user friendly, does not require genetic manipulation, and achieves comparable RNA-labeling efficiency. We demonstrate that the dCas13 system is capable of labeling NEAT1, SatIII, MUC4, and GCN4 RNAs and allows the study of paraspeckle-associated NEAT1 dynamics. Applying orthogonal dCas13 proteins or combining dCas13 and MS2-MCP allows dual-color imaging of RNAs in single cells. Further combination of dCas13 and dCas9 systems allows simultaneous visualization of genomic DNA and RNA transcripts in living cells."	0
"32402286"	"CCDC57 Cooperates with Microtubules and Microcephaly Protein CEP63 and Regulates Centriole Duplication and Mitotic Progression.Centrosomes function in key cellular processes ranging from cell division to cellular signaling. Their dysfunction is linked to cancer and developmental disorders. Here, we identify CCDC57 as a pleiotropic regulator of centriole duplication, mitosis, and ciliogenesis. Combining proximity mapping with superresolution imaging, we show that CCDC57 localizes to the proximal end of centrioles and interacts with the microcephaly protein CEP63, centriolar satellite proteins, and microtubules. Loss of CCDC57 causes defects in centriole duplication and results in a failure to localize CEP63 and CEP152 to the centrosome. Additionally, CCDC57 depletion perturbs mitotic progression both in wild-type and centriole-less cells. Importantly, its centrosome-targeting region is required for its interaction with CEP63 and functions during centriole duplication and cilium assembly, whereas the microtubule-targeting region is required for its mitotic functions. Together, our results identify CCDC57 as a critical interface between centrosome and microtubule-mediated cellular processes that are deregulated in microcephaly."	1
"32697993"	"Lyssavirus Vaccine with a Chimeric Glycoprotein Protects across Phylogroups.Rabies is nearly 100% lethal in the absence of treatment, killing an estimated 59,000 people annually. Vaccines and biologics are highly efficacious when administered properly. Sixteen rabies-related viruses (lyssaviruses) are similarly lethal, but some are divergent enough to evade protection from current vaccines and biologics, which are based only on the classical rabies virus (RABV). Here we present the development and characterization of LyssaVax, a vaccine featuring a structurally designed, functional chimeric glycoprotein (G) containing immunologically important domains from both RABV G and the highly divergent Mokola virus (MOKV) G. LyssaVax elicits high titers of antibodies specific to both RABV and MOKV Gs in mice. Immune sera also neutralize a range of wild-type lyssaviruses across the major phylogroups. LyssaVax-immunized mice are protected against challenge with recombinant RABV and MOKV. Altogether, LyssaVax demonstrates the utility of structural modeling in vaccine design and constitutes a broadened lyssavirus vaccine candidate."	0
"32354837"	"4E-T-bound mRNAs are stored in a silenced and deadenylated form.Human 4E-T is an eIF4E-binding protein (4E-BP) present in processing (P)-bodies that represses translation and regulates decay of mRNAs destabilized by AU-rich elements and microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we show that upon mRNA binding 4E-T represses translation and promotes deadenylation via the recruitment of the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. The interaction with CCR4-NOT is mediated by previously uncharacterized sites in the middle region of 4E-T. Importantly, mRNA decapping and decay are inhibited by 4E-T and the deadenylated target is stored in a repressed form. Inhibition of mRNA decapping requires the interaction of 4E-T with the cap-binding proteins eIF4E/4EHP. We further show that regulation of decapping by 4E-T participates in mRNA repression by the miRNA effector protein TNRC6B and that 4E-T overexpression interferes with tristetraprolin (TTP)- and NOT1-mediated mRNA decay. Thus, we postulate that 4E-T modulates 5'-to-3' decay by swapping the fate of a deadenylated mRNA from complete degradation to storage. Our results provide insight into the mechanism of mRNA storage that controls localized translation and mRNA stability in P-bodies."	1
"32755596"	"The Lon Protease Links Nucleotide Metabolism with Proteotoxic Stress.During proteotoxic stress, bacteria maintain critical processes like DNA replication while removing misfolded proteins, which are degraded by the Lon protease. Here, we show that in Caulobacter crescentus Lon controls deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate (dNTP) pools during stress through degradation of the transcription factor CcrM. Elevated dNTP/nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) ratios in Δlon cells protects them from deletion of otherwise essential deoxythymidine triphosphate (dTTP)-producing pathways and shields them from hydroxyurea-induced loss of dNTPs. Increased dNTP production in Δlon results from higher expression of ribonucleotide reductase driven by increased CcrM. We show that misfolded proteins can stabilize CcrM by competing for limited protease and that Lon-dependent control of dNTPs improves fitness during protein misfolding conditions. We propose that linking dNTP production with availability of Lon allows Caulobacter to maintain replication capacity when misfolded protein burden increases, such as during rapid growth. Because Lon recognizes misfolded proteins regardless of the stress, this mechanism allows for response to a variety of unanticipated conditions."	0
"32209476"	"OXR1A, a Coactivator of PRMT5 Regulating Histone Arginine Methylation.Oxidation resistance gene 1 (OXR1) protects cells against oxidative stress. We find that male mice with brain-specific isoform A knockout (Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup>) develop fatty liver. RNA sequencing of male Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> liver indicates decreased growth hormone (GH) signaling, which is known to affect liver metabolism. Indeed, Gh expression is reduced in male mice Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary gland and in rat Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary adenoma cell-line GH3. Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> male mice show reduced fasting-blood GH levels. Pull-down and proximity ligation assays reveal that OXR1A is associated with arginine methyl transferase PRMT5. OXR1A-depleted GH3 cells show reduced symmetrical dimethylation of histone H3 arginine 2 (H3R2me2s), a product of PRMT5 catalyzed methylation, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) of H3R2me2s shows reduced Gh promoter enrichment. Finally, we demonstrate with purified proteins that OXR1A stimulates PRMT5/MEP50-catalyzed H3R2me2s. Our data suggest that OXR1A is a coactivator of PRMT5, regulating histone arginine methylation and thereby GH production within the pituitary gland."	1
"32640215"	"Kinetic Heterogeneity of Cancer Cell Fractional Killing.Lethal drugs can induce incomplete cell death in a population of cancer cells, a phenomenon referred to as fractional killing. Here, we show that high-throughput population-level time-lapse imaging can be used to quantify fractional killing in response to hundreds of different drug treatments in parallel. We find that stable intermediate levels of fractional killing are uncommon, with many drug treatments resulting in complete or near-complete eradication of all cells, if given enough time. The kinetics of fractional killing over time vary substantially as a function of drug, drug dose, and genetic background. At the molecular level, the antiapoptotic protein MCL1 is an important determinant of the kinetics of fractional killing in response to MAPK pathway inhibitors but not other lethal stimuli. These studies suggest that fractional killing is governed by diverse lethal stimulus-specific mechanisms."	0
"32571872"	"The RNA-binding protein PTBP1 promotes ATPase-dependent dissociation of the RNA helicase UPF1 to protect transcripts from nonsense-mediated mRNA decay.The sequence-specific RNA-binding proteins PTBP1 (polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 1) and HNRNP L (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein L) protect mRNAs from nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) by preventing the UPF1 RNA helicase from associating with potential decay targets. Here, by analyzing <i>in vitro</i> helicase activity, dissociation of UPF1 from purified mRNPs, and transcriptome-wide UPF1 RNA binding, we present the mechanistic basis for inhibition of NMD by PTBP1. Unlike mechanisms of RNA stabilization that depend on direct competition for binding sites among protective RNA-binding proteins and decay factors, PTBP1 promotes displacement of UPF1 already bound to potential substrates. Our results show that PTBP1 directly exploits the tendency of UPF1 to release RNA upon ATP binding and hydrolysis. We further find that UPF1 sensitivity to PTBP1 is coordinated by a regulatory loop in domain 1B of UPF1. We propose that the UPF1 regulatory loop and protective proteins control kinetic proofreading of potential NMD substrates, presenting a new model for RNA helicase regulation and target selection in the NMD pathway."	0
"30704900"	"BRCA1 Haploinsufficiency Is Masked by RNF168-Mediated Chromatin Ubiquitylation.BRCA1 functions at two distinct steps during homologous recombination (HR). Initially, it promotes DNA end resection, and subsequently it recruits the PALB2 and BRCA2 mediator complex, which stabilizes RAD51-DNA nucleoprotein filaments. Loss of 53BP1 rescues the HR defect in BRCA1-deficient cells by increasing resection, suggesting that BRCA1's downstream role in RAD51 loading is dispensable when 53BP1 is absent. Here we show that the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF168, in addition to its canonical role in inhibiting end resection, acts in a redundant manner with BRCA1 to load PALB2 onto damaged DNA. Loss of RNF168 negates the synthetic rescue of BRCA1 deficiency by 53BP1 deletion, and it predisposes BRCA1 heterozygous mice to cancer. BRCA1<sup>+/-</sup>RNF168<sup>-/-</sup> cells lack RAD51 foci and are hypersensitive to PARP inhibitor, whereas forced targeting of PALB2 to DNA breaks in mutant cells circumvents BRCA1 haploinsufficiency. Inhibiting the chromatin ubiquitin pathway may, therefore, be a synthetic lethality strategy for BRCA1-deficient cancers."	0
"32433966"	"CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 Axis Mediates Neuroinflammatory Cascade across Schwann Cell-Neuron-Microglia.Neuroinflammation is a crucial mechanism in many neurological disorders. Injury to the peripheral sensory nerves leads to a neuroinflammatory response in the somatosensory pathway, from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) to the spinal cord, contributing to neuropathic pain. How the immune reaction is initiated peripherally and propagated to the spinal cord remains less clear. Here, we find that ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), highly expressed in Schwann cells, mediates neuroinflammatory response through the activating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and inducing interleukin 6 (IL-6) in sensory neurons. Cntf deficiency attenuates neuroinflammation in DRG and the spinal cord with alleviated pain post-injury. Recombinant CNTF applied to the sensory nerves recapitulates neuroinflammation in the DRG and spinal cord, with consequent pain development. We delineate the CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 axis in mediating the onset and progression of the inflammatory cascade from the periphery to the spinal cord with therapeutic implications for neuropathic pain."	1
"32217665"	"The rRNA m<sup>6</sup>A methyltransferase METTL5 is involved in pluripotency and developmental programs.Covalent chemical modifications of cellular RNAs directly impact all biological processes. However, our mechanistic understanding of the enzymes catalyzing these modifications, their substrates and biological functions, remains vague. Amongst RNA modifications N<sup>6</sup>-methyladenosine (m<sup>6</sup>A) is widespread and found in messenger (mRNA), ribosomal (rRNA), and noncoding RNAs. Here, we undertook a systematic screen to uncover new RNA methyltransferases. We demonstrate that the methyltransferase-like 5 (METTL5) protein catalyzes m<sup>6</sup>A in <i>18S</i> rRNA at position A<sub>1832</sub> We report that absence of <i>Mettl5</i> in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) results in a decrease in global translation rate, spontaneous loss of pluripotency, and compromised differentiation potential. METTL5-deficient mice are born at non-Mendelian rates and develop morphological and behavioral abnormalities. Importantly, mice lacking METTL5 recapitulate symptoms of patients with DNA variants in <i>METTL5</i>, thereby providing a new mouse disease model. Overall, our biochemical, molecular, and in vivo characterization highlights the importance of m<sup>6</sup>A in rRNA in stemness, differentiation, development, and diseases."	0
"32023461"	"Wnt3a Stimulation Promotes Primary Ciliogenesis through β-Catenin Phosphorylation-Induced Reorganization of Centriolar Satellites.Primary cilium is an antenna-like microtubule-based cellular sensing structure. Abnormal regulation of the dynamic assembly and disassembly cycle of primary cilia is closely related to ciliopathy and cancer. The Wnt signaling pathway plays a major role in embryonic development and tissue homeostasis, and defects in Wnt signaling are associated with a variety of human diseases, including cancer. In this study, we provide direct evidence of Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis, which includes a continuous pathway showing that the stimulation of Wnt3a, a canonical Wnt ligand, promotes the generation of β-catenin p-S47 epitope by CK1δ, and these events lead to the reorganization of centriolar satellites resulting in primary ciliogenesis. We have also confirmed the application of our findings in MCF-7/ADR cells, a multidrug-resistant tumor cell model. Thus, our data provide a Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis pathway and may provide a clue on how to overcome multidrug resistance in cancer treatment."	1
"32905777"	"Hypoxia Triggers the Intravasation of Clustered Circulating Tumor Cells.Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are shed from solid cancers in the form of single or clustered cells, and the latter display an extraordinary ability to initiate metastasis. Yet, the biological phenomena that trigger the shedding of CTC clusters from a primary cancerous lesion are poorly understood. Here, when dynamically labeling breast cancer cells along cancer progression, we observe that the majority of CTC clusters are undergoing hypoxia, while single CTCs are largely normoxic. Strikingly, we find that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) targeting leads to primary tumor shrinkage, but it increases intra-tumor hypoxia, resulting in a higher CTC cluster shedding rate and metastasis formation. Conversely, pro-angiogenic treatment increases primary tumor size, yet it dramatically suppresses the formation of CTC clusters and metastasis. Thus, intra-tumor hypoxia leads to the formation of clustered CTCs with high metastatic ability, and a pro-angiogenic therapy suppresses metastasis formation through prevention of CTC cluster generation."	0
"32587091"	"The deubiquitinase USP7 uses a distinct ubiquitin-like domain to deubiquitinate NF-ĸB subunits.The transcription factor NF-ĸB is a master regulator of the innate immune response and plays a central role in inflammatory diseases by mediating the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Ubiquitination-triggered proteasomal degradation of DNA-bound NF-ĸB strongly limits the expression of its target genes. Conversely, USP7 (deubiquitinase ubiquitin-specific peptidase 7) opposes the activities of E3 ligases, stabilizes DNA-bound NF-ĸB, and thereby promotes NF-ĸB-mediated transcription. Using gene expression and synthetic peptide arrays on membrane support and overlay analyses, we found here that inhibiting USP7 increases NF-ĸB ubiquitination and degradation, prevents Toll-like receptor-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, and represents an effective strategy for controlling inflammation. However, the broad regulatory roles of USP7 in cell death pathways, chromatin, and DNA damage responses limit the use of catalytic inhibitors of USP7 as anti-inflammatory agents. To this end, we identified an NF-ĸB-binding site in USP7, ubiquitin-like domain 2, that selectively mediates interactions of USP7 with NF-ĸB subunits but is dispensable for interactions with other proteins. Moreover, we found that the amino acids <sup>757</sup>LDEL<sup>760</sup> in USP7 critically contribute to the interaction with the p65 subunit of NF-ĸB. Our findings support the notion that USP7 activity could be potentially targeted in a substrate-selective manner through the development of noncatalytic inhibitors of this deubiquitinase to abrogate NF-ĸB activity."	0
"32048997"	"Arginine-Enriched Mixed-Charge Domains Provide Cohesion for Nuclear Speckle Condensation.Low-complexity protein domains promote the formation of various biomolecular condensates. However, in many cases, the precise sequence features governing condensate formation and identity remain unclear. Here, we investigate the role of intrinsically disordered mixed-charge domains (MCDs) in nuclear speckle condensation. Proteins composed exclusively of arginine-aspartic acid dipeptide repeats undergo length-dependent condensation and speckle incorporation. Substituting arginine with lysine in synthetic and natural speckle-associated MCDs abolishes these activities, identifying a key role for multivalent contacts through arginine's guanidinium ion. MCDs can synergize with a speckle-associated RNA recognition motif to promote speckle specificity and residence. MCD behavior is tunable through net-charge: increasing negative charge abolishes condensation and speckle incorporation. Contrastingly, increasing positive charge through arginine leads to enhanced condensation, speckle enlargement, decreased splicing factor mobility, and defective mRNA export. Together, these results identify key sequence determinants of MCD-promoted speckle condensation and link the dynamic material properties of speckles with function in mRNA processing."	0
"32035036"	"Dopamine Uses the DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A Signaling Axis to Block the TRAF6-Mediated NF-κB Pathway and Suppress Systemic Inflammation.The functional relevance and mechanistic basis of the effects of the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) on inflammation remain unclear. Here we reveal that DA inhibited TLR2-induced NF-κB activation and inflammation via the DRD5 receptor in macrophages. We found that the DRD5 receptor, via the EFD and IYX(X)I/L motifs in its CT and IC3 loop, respectively, can directly recruit TRAF6 and its negative regulator ARRB2 to form a multi-protein complex also containing downstream signaling proteins, such as TAK1, IKKs, and PP2A, that impairs TRAF6-mediated activation of NF-κB and expression of pro-inflammatory genes. Furthermore, the DA-DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A signaling axis can prevent S. aureus-induced inflammation and protect mice against S. aureus-induced sepsis and meningitis after DA treatment. Collectively, these findings provide the first demonstration of DA-DRD5 signaling acting to control inflammation and a detailed delineation of the underlying mechanism and identify the DRD5-ARRB2-PP2A axis as a potential target for future therapy of inflammation-associated diseases such as meningitis and sepsis."	1
"32203415"	"Copper is an essential regulator of the autophagic kinases ULK1/2 to drive lung adenocarcinoma.Although the transition metal copper (Cu) is an essential nutrient that is conventionally viewed as a static cofactor within enzyme active sites, a non-traditional role for Cu as a modulator of kinase signalling is emerging. Here, we found that Cu is required for the activity of the autophagic kinases ULK1 and ULK2 (ULK1/2) through a direct Cu-ULK1/2 interaction. Genetic loss of the Cu transporter Ctr1 or mutations in ULK1 that disrupt the binding of Cu reduced ULK1/2-dependent signalling and the formation of autophagosome complexes. Increased levels of intracellular Cu are associated with starvation-induced autophagy and are sufficient to enhance ULK1 kinase activity and, in turn, autophagic flux. The growth and survival of lung tumours driven by KRAS<sup>G12D</sup> is diminished in the absence of Ctr1, is dependent on ULK1 Cu binding and is associated with reduced levels of autophagy and signalling. These findings suggest a molecular basis for exploiting Cu-chelation therapy to prevent autophagy signalling to limit proliferation and improve patient survival in cancer."	1
"32049010"	"Secreted Pyruvate Kinase M2 Promotes Lung Cancer Metastasis through Activating the Integrin Beta1/FAK Signaling Pathway.Cancer cell-derived secretomes have been documented to play critical roles in cancer progression. Intriguingly, alternative extracellular roles of intracellular proteins are involved in various steps of tumor progression, which can offer strategies to fight cancer. Herein, we identify lung cancer progression-associated secretome signatures using mass spectrometry analysis. Among them, PKM2 is verified to be highly expressed and secreted in lung cancer cells and clinical samples. Functional analyses demonstrates that secreted PKM2 facilitates tumor metastasis. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analysis and functional validation identify integrin β1 as a receptor of secreted PKM2. Mechanistically, secreted PKM2 directly bound to integrin β1 and subsequently activated the FAK/SRC/ERK axis to promote tumor metastasis. Collectively, our findings suggest that PKM2 is a potential serum biomarker for diagnosing lung cancer and that targeting the secreted PKM2-integrin β1 axis can inhibit lung cancer development, which provides evidence of a potential therapeutic strategy in lung cancer."	1
"32460025"	"The Drosophila Ortholog of Mammalian Transcription Factor Sox9 Regulates Intestinal Homeostasis and Regeneration at an Appropriate Level.Balanced stem cell self-renewal and differentiation is essential for maintaining tissue homeostasis, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we identified the transcription factor SRY-related HMG-box (Sox) 100B, which is orthologous to mammalian Sox8/9/10, as a common target and central mediator of the EGFR/Ras and JAK/STAT signaling pathways that coordinates intestinal stem cell (ISC) proliferation and differentiation during both normal epithelial homeostasis and stress-induced intestinal repair in Drosophila. The two stress-responsive pathways directly regulate Sox100B transcription via two separate enhancers. Interestingly, an appropriate level of Sox100B is critical for its function, as its depletion inhibits ISC proliferation via cell cycle arrest, while its overexpression also inhibits ISC proliferation by directly suppressing EGFR expression and additionally promotes ISC differentiation by activating a differentiation-promoting regulatory circuitry composed of Sox100B, Sox21a, and Pdm1. Thus, our study reveals a Sox family transcription factor that functions as a stress-responsive signaling nexus that ultimately controls tissue homeostasis and regeneration."	1
"32492418"	"Regional Variation in Epidermal Susceptibility to UV-Induced Carcinogenesis Reflects Proliferative Activity of Epidermal Progenitors.To better understand the influence of ultraviolet (UV) irradiation on the initial steps of skin carcinogenesis, we examine patches of labeled keratinocytes as a proxy for clones in the interfollicular epidermis (IFE) and measure their size variation upon UVB irradiation. Multicolor lineage tracing reveals that in chronically irradiated skin, patches near hair follicles (HFs) increase in size, whereas those far from follicles do not change. This is explained by proliferation of basal epidermal cells within 60 μm of HF openings. Upon interruption of UVB, patch size near HFs regresses significantly. These anatomical differences in proliferative behavior have significant consequences for the cell of origin of basal cell carcinomas (BCCs). Indeed, a UV-inducible murine BCC model shows that BCC patches are more frequent, larger, and more invasive near HFs. These findings have major implications for the prevention of field cancerization in the epidermis."	0
"31056445"	"Maintenance of CTCF- and Transcription Factor-Mediated Interactions from the Gametes to the Early Mouse Embryo.The epigenetic information present in mammalian gametes and whether it is transmitted to the progeny are relatively unknown. We find that many promoters in mouse sperm are occupied by RNA polymerase II (Pol II) and Mediator. The same promoters are accessible in GV and MII oocytes and preimplantation embryos. Sperm distal ATAC-seq sites containing motifs for various transcription factors are conserved in monkeys and humans. ChIP-seq analyses confirm that Foxa1, ERα, and AR occupy distal enhancers in sperm. Accessible sperm enhancers containing H3.3 and H2A.Z are also accessible in oocytes and preimplantation embryos. Furthermore, their interactions with promoters in the gametes persist during early development. Sperm- or oocyte-specific interactions mediated by CTCF and cohesin are only present in the paternal or maternal chromosomes, respectively, in the zygote and 2-cell stages. These interactions converge in both chromosomes by the 8-cell stage. Thus, mammalian gametes contain complex patterns of 3D interactions that can be transmitted to the zygote after fertilization."	0
"32053778"	"Context-Dependent Gene Regulation by Homeodomain Transcription Factor Complexes Revealed by Shape-Readout Deficient Proteins.Eukaryotic transcription factors (TFs) form complexes with various partner proteins to recognize their genomic target sites. Yet, how the DNA sequence determines which TF complex forms at any given site is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that high-throughput in vitro DNA binding assays coupled with unbiased computational analysis provide unprecedented insight into how different DNA sequences select distinct compositions and configurations of homeodomain TF complexes. Using inferred knowledge about minor groove width readout, we design targeted protein mutations that destabilize homeodomain binding both in vitro and in vivo in a complex-specific manner. By performing parallel systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment sequencing (SELEX-seq), chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq), RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and Hi-C assays, we not only classify the majority of in vivo binding events in terms of complex composition but also infer complex-specific functions by perturbing the gene regulatory network controlled by a single complex."	0
"31980388"	"A Cancer-Specific Ubiquitin Ligase Drives mRNA Alternative Polyadenylation by Ubiquitinating the mRNA 3' End Processing Complex.Alternative polyadenylation (APA) contributes to transcriptome complexity by generating mRNA isoforms with varying 3' UTR lengths. APA leading to 3' UTR shortening (3' US) is a common feature of most cancer cells; however, the molecular mechanisms are not understood. Here, we describe a widespread mechanism promoting 3' US in cancer through ubiquitination of the mRNA 3' end processing complex protein, PCF11, by the cancer-specific MAGE-A11-HUWE1 ubiquitin ligase. MAGE-A11 is normally expressed only in the male germline but is frequently re-activated in cancers. MAGE-A11 is necessary for cancer cell viability and is sufficient to drive tumorigenesis. Screening for targets of MAGE-A11 revealed that it ubiquitinates PCF11, resulting in loss of CFIm25 from the mRNA 3' end processing complex. This leads to APA of many transcripts affecting core oncogenic and tumor suppressors, including cyclin D2 and PTEN. These findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms driving APA in cancer and suggest therapeutic strategies."	1
"31398322"	"Mutation Rate Heterogeneity Increases Odds of Survival in Unpredictable Environments.Mutation rates affect both a population's present fitness and its capacity to adapt to future environmental changes. When the available genetic variability limits adaptation to environmental change, natural selection favors high mutations rates. However, constitutively high mutation rates compromise the fitness of a population in stable environments. This problem may be resolved if an increase in mutation rates is limited to times of stress, restricted to some genomic regions, and occurs only in a subpopulation of cells. Such within-population heterogeneity of mutation rates can result from genetic, environmental, and stochastic effects. The presence of subpopulations of transient mutator cells does not jeopardize the overall fitness of a population under stable environmental conditions. However, they can increase the odds of survival in changing environments because they represent reservoirs of increased genetic variability. This article presents evidence that such heterogeneity of mutation rates is more the norm than the exception."	0
"31606273"	"Distinct Binding Preferences between Ras and Raf Family Members and the Impact on Oncogenic Ras Signaling.The Ras GTPases are frequently mutated in human cancer, and, although the Raf kinases are essential effectors of Ras signaling, the tumorigenic properties of specific Ras-Raf complexes are not well characterized. Here, we examine the ability of individual Ras and Raf proteins to interact in live cells using bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) technology. We find that C-Raf binds all mutant Ras proteins with high affinity, whereas B-Raf exhibits a striking preference for mutant K-Ras. This selectivity is mediated by the acidic, N-terminal segment of B-Raf and requires the K-Ras polybasic region for high-affinity binding. In addition, we find that C-Raf is critical for mutant H-Ras-driven signaling and that events stabilizing B-Raf/C-Raf dimerization, such as Raf inhibitor treatment or certain B-Raf mutations, can allow mutant H-Ras to engage B-Raf with increased affinity to promote tumorigenesis, thus revealing a previously unappreciated role for C-Raf in potentiating B-Raf function."	1
"32620553"	"The maturase HydF enables [FeFe] hydrogenase assembly via transient, cofactor-dependent interactions.[FeFe] hydrogenases have attracted extensive attention in the field of renewable energy research because of their remarkable efficiency for H<sub>2</sub> gas production. H<sub>2</sub> formation is catalyzed by a biologically unique hexanuclear iron cofactor denoted the H-cluster. The assembly of this cofactor requires a dedicated maturation machinery including HydF, a multidomain [4Fe4S] cluster protein with GTPase activity. HydF is responsible for harboring and delivering a precatalyst to the apo-hydrogenase, but the details of this process are not well understood. Here, we utilize gas-phase electrophoretic macromolecule analysis to show that a HydF dimer forms a transient interaction complex with the hydrogenase and that the formation of this complex depends on the cofactor content on HydF. Moreover, Fourier transform infrared, electron paramagnetic resonance, and UV-visible spectroscopy studies of mutants of HydF show that the isolated iron-sulfur cluster domain retains the capacity for binding the precatalyst in a reversible fashion and is capable of activating apo-hydrogenase in <i>in vitro</i> assays. These results demonstrate the central role of the iron-sulfur cluster domain of HydF in the final stages of H-cluster assembly, <i>i.e.</i> in binding and delivering the precatalyst."	0
"32187554"	"FKBP10 Regulates Protein Translation to Sustain Lung Cancer Growth.Cancer therapy is limited, in part, by lack of specificity. Thus, identifying molecules that are selectively expressed by, and relevant for, cancer cells is of paramount medical importance. Here, we show that peptidyl-prolyl-cis-trans-isomerase (PPIase) FK506-binding protein 10 (FKBP10)-positive cells are present in cancer lesions but absent in the healthy parenchyma of human lung. FKBP10 expression negatively correlates with survival of lung cancer patients, and its downregulation causes a dramatic diminution of lung tumor burden in mice. Mechanistically, our results from gain- and loss-of-function assays show that FKBP10 boosts cancer growth and stemness via its PPIase activity. Also, FKBP10 interacts with ribosomes, and its downregulation leads to reduction of translation elongation at the beginning of open reading frames (ORFs), particularly upon insertion of proline residues. Thus, our data unveil FKBP10 as a cancer-selective molecule with a key role in translational reprogramming, stem-like traits, and growth of lung cancer."	0
"32234488"	"LIN28B Underlies the Pathogenesis of a Subclass of Ewing Sarcoma LIN28B Control of EWS-FLI1 Stability.Ewing sarcoma (EwS) is associated with poor prognosis despite current multimodal therapy. Targeting of EWS-FLI1, the fusion protein responsible for its pathogenesis, and its principal downstream targets has not yet produced satisfactory therapeutic options, fueling the search for alternative approaches. Here, we show that the oncofetal RNA-binding protein LIN28B regulates the stability of EWS-FLI1 mRNA in ~10% of EwSs. LIN28B depletion in these tumors leads to a decrease in the expression of EWS-FLI1 and its direct transcriptional network, abrogating EwS cell self-renewal and tumorigenicity. Moreover, pharmacological inhibition of LIN28B mimics the effect of LIN28B depletion, suggesting that LIN28B sustains the emergence of a subset of EwS in which it also serves as an effective therapeutic target."	0
"32546483"	"Disrupting phosphatase SHP2 in macrophages protects mice from high-fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance by elevating IL-18 levels.Chronic low-grade inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. Src homology 2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase-2 (SHP2) has been reported to play diverse roles in different tissues during the development of metabolic disorders. We previously reported that SHP2 inhibition in macrophages results in increased cytokine production. Here, we investigated the association between SHP2 inhibition in macrophages and the development of metabolic diseases. Unexpectedly, we found that mice with a conditional SHP2 knockout in macrophages (cSHP2-KO) have ameliorated metabolic disorders. cSHP2-KO mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) gained less body weight and exhibited decreased hepatic steatosis, as well as improved glucose intolerance and insulin sensitivity, compared with HFD-fed WT littermates. Further experiments revealed that SHP2 deficiency leads to hyperactivation of caspase-1 and subsequent elevation of interleukin 18 (IL-18) levels, both <i>in vivo</i> and <i>in vitro</i> Of note, IL-18 neutralization and caspase-1 knockout reversed the amelioration of hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance observed in the cSHP2-KO mice. Administration of two specific SHP2 inhibitors, SHP099 and Phps1, improved HFD-induced hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance. Our findings provide detailed insights into the role of macrophagic SHP2 in metabolic disorders. We conclude that pharmacological inhibition of SHP2 may represent a therapeutic strategy for the management of type 2 diabetes."	0
"30639241"	"Efficient Pre-mRNA Cleavage Prevents Replication-Stress-Associated Genome Instability.Cellular mechanisms that safeguard genome integrity are often subverted in cancer. To identify cancer-related genome caretakers, we employed a convergent multi-screening strategy coupled to quantitative image-based cytometry and ranked candidate genes according to multivariate readouts reflecting viability, proliferative capacity, replisome integrity, and DNA damage signaling. This unveiled regulators of replication stress resilience, including components of the pre-mRNA cleavage and polyadenylation complex. We show that deregulation of pre-mRNA cleavage impairs replication fork speed and leads to excessive origin activity, rendering cells highly dependent on ATR function. While excessive formation of RNA:DNA hybrids under these conditions was tightly associated with replication-stress-induced DNA damage, inhibition of transcription rescued fork speed, origin activation, and alleviated replication catastrophe. Uncoupling of pre-mRNA cleavage from co-transcriptional processing and export also protected cells from replication-stress-associated DNA damage, suggesting that pre-mRNA cleavage provides a mechanism to efficiently release nascent transcripts and thereby prevent gene gating-associated genomic instability."	0
"31227230"	"An Atlas of Human Glycosylation Pathways Enables Display of the Human Glycome by Gene Engineered Cells.The structural diversity of glycans on cells-the glycome-is vast and complex to decipher. Glycan arrays display oligosaccharides and are used to report glycan hapten binding epitopes. Glycan arrays are limited resources and present saccharides without the context of other glycans and glycoconjugates. We used maps of glycosylation pathways to generate a library of isogenic HEK293 cells with combinatorially engineered glycosylation capacities designed to display and dissect the genetic, biosynthetic, and structural basis for glycan binding in a natural context. The cell-based glycan array is self-renewable and reports glycosyltransferase genes required (or blocking) for interactions through logical sequential biosynthetic steps, which is predictive of structural glycan features involved and provides instructions for synthesis, recombinant production, and genetic dissection strategies. Broad utility of the cell-based glycan array is demonstrated, and we uncover higher order binding of microbial adhesins to clustered patches of O-glycans organized by their presentation on proteins."	0
"31053472"	"Ca<sup>2+</sup>-Stimulated AMPK-Dependent Phosphorylation of Exo1 Protects Stressed Replication Forks from Aberrant Resection.Abnormal processing of stressed replication forks by nucleases can cause fork collapse, genomic instability, and cell death. Despite its importance, it is poorly understood how the cell properly controls nucleases to prevent detrimental fork processing. Here, we report a signaling pathway that controls the activity of exonuclease Exo1 to prevent aberrant fork resection during replication stress. Our results indicate that replication stress elevates intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> concentration ([Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub>), leading to activation of CaMKK2 and the downstream kinase 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Following activation, AMPK directly phosphorylates Exo1 at serine 746 to promote 14-3-3 binding and inhibit Exo1 recruitment to stressed replication forks, thereby avoiding unscheduled fork resection. Disruption of this signaling pathway results in excessive ssDNA, chromosomal instability, and hypersensitivity to replication stress inducers. These findings reveal a link between [Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub> and the replication stress response as well as a function of the Ca<sup>2+</sup>-CaMKK2-AMPK signaling axis in safeguarding fork structure to maintain genome stability."	1
"32268103"	"Shank2 Binds to aPKC and Controls Tight Junction Formation with Rap1 Signaling during Establishment of Epithelial Cell Polarity.Epithelial cells establish apicobasal polarity by forming tight junctions (TJs) at the apical-lateral boundary, which play fundamental roles in physiological functions. An evolutionarily conserved atypical protein kinase C (aPKC)-partitioning defective (PAR) complex functions as a platform for TJ assembly during cell polarity establishment. However, how this complex converts the spatial cues into a subsequent active unit is unclear. Here, we identify an epithelial isoform of Shank2 as a mediator of the aPKC-PAR complex. Shank2 binds to and colocalizes with aPKC at apical junctional regions of polarized epithelial cells. Shank2 knockdown results in defects in TJ formation. Mechanistically, we find that the N-terminal SPN domain is required for the junctional localization of Shank2 and binds to the active form of Rap1 small GTPase, which is involved in TJ formation. Our findings suggest that a close physical and functional relationship between aPKC and Shank2-active Rap1 signaling serves as the platform for TJ assembly to regulate epithelial cell polarity."	1
"31919191"	"The microtubule regulator <i>ringer</i> functions downstream from the RNA repair/splicing pathway to promote axon regeneration.Promoting axon regeneration in the central and peripheral nervous system is of clinical importance in neural injury and neurodegenerative diseases. Both pro- and antiregeneration factors are being identified. We previously reported that the Rtca mediated RNA repair/splicing pathway restricts axon regeneration by inhibiting the nonconventional splicing of <i>Xbp1</i> mRNA under cellular stress. However, the downstream effectors remain unknown. Here, through transcriptome profiling, we show that the tubulin polymerization-promoting protein (TPPP) ringmaker/ringer is dramatically increased in Rtca-deficient <i>Drosophila</i> sensory neurons, which is dependent on Xbp1. Ringer is expressed in sensory neurons before and after injury, and is cell-autonomously required for axon regeneration. While loss of ringer abolishes the regeneration enhancement in Rtca mutants, its overexpression is sufficient to promote regeneration both in the peripheral and central nervous system. Ringer maintains microtubule stability/dynamics with the microtubule-associated protein futsch/MAP1B, which is also required for axon regeneration. Furthermore, ringer lies downstream from and is negatively regulated by the microtubule-associated deacetylase HDAC6, which functions as a regeneration inhibitor. Taken together, our findings suggest that ringer acts as a hub for microtubule regulators that relays cellular status information, such as cellular stress, to the integrity of microtubules in order to instruct neuroregeneration."	0
"32579932"	"mTOR Signaling and SREBP Activity Increase FADS2 Expression and Can Activate Sapienate Biosynthesis.Cancer cells display an increased plasticity in their lipid metabolism, which includes the conversion of palmitate to sapienate via the enzyme fatty acid desaturase 2 (FADS2). We find that FADS2 expression correlates with mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) activity across multiple cancer types and is prognostic in some cancer types. Accordingly, activating mTOR signaling by deleting tuberous sclerosis complex 2 (Tsc2) or overexpression of SREBP-1/2 is sufficient to increase FADS2 mRNA expression and sapienate metabolism in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and U87 glioblastoma cells, respectively. Conversely, inhibiting mTOR signaling decreases FADS2 expression and sapienate biosynthesis in MEFs with Tsc2 deletion, HUH7 hepatocellular carcinoma cells, and orthotopic HUH7 liver xenografts. In conclusion, we show that mTOR signaling and SREBP activity are sufficient to activate sapienate metabolism by increasing FADS2 expression. Consequently, targeting mTOR signaling can reduce sapienate metabolism in vivo."	1
"32402252"	"KAP1 Is a Chromatin Reader that Couples Steps of RNA Polymerase II Transcription to Sustain Oncogenic Programs.Precise control of the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) cycle, including pausing and pause release, maintains transcriptional homeostasis and organismal functions. Despite previous work to understand individual transcription steps, we reveal a mechanism that integrates RNA Pol II cycle transitions. Surprisingly, KAP1/TRIM28 uses a previously uncharacterized chromatin reader cassette to bind hypo-acetylated histone 4 tails at promoters, guaranteeing continuous progression of RNA Pol II entry to and exit from the pause state. Upon chromatin docking, KAP1 first associates with RNA Pol II and then recruits a pathway-specific transcription factor (SMAD2) in response to cognate ligands, enabling gene-selective CDK9-dependent pause release. This coupling mechanism is exploited by tumor cells to aberrantly sustain transcriptional programs commonly dysregulated in cancer patients. The discovery of a factor integrating transcription steps expands the functional repertoire by which chromatin readers operate and provides mechanistic understanding of transcription regulation, offering alternative therapeutic opportunities to target transcriptional dysregulation."	1
"32101746"	"Mechanism of Crosstalk between the LSD1 Demethylase and HDAC1 Deacetylase in the CoREST Complex.The transcriptional corepressor complex CoREST is one of seven histone deacetylase complexes that regulate the genome through controlling chromatin acetylation. The CoREST complex is unique in containing both histone demethylase and deacetylase enzymes, LSD1 and HDAC1, held together by the RCOR1 scaffold protein. To date, it has been assumed that the enzymes function independently within the complex. Now, we report the assembly of the ternary complex. Using both structural and functional studies, we show that the activity of the two enzymes is closely coupled and that the complex can exist in at least two distinct states with different kinetics. Electron microscopy of the complex reveals a bi-lobed structure with LSD1 and HDAC1 enzymes at opposite ends of the complex. The structure of CoREST in complex with a nucleosome reveals a mode of chromatin engagement that contrasts with previous models."	0
"32783940"	"FOXK1 Participates in DNA Damage Response by Controlling 53BP1 Function.53BP1 plays a central role in dictating DNA repair choice between non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR), which is important for the sensitivity to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPis) of BRCA1-deficient cancers. In this study, we show that FOXK1 associates with 53BP1 and regulates 53BP1-dependent functions. FOXK1-53BP1 interaction is significantly enhanced upon DNA damage during the S phase in an ATM/CHK2-dependent manner, which reduces the association of 53BP1 with its downstream factors RIF1 and PTIP. Depletion of FOXK1 impairs DNA repair and induces compromised cell survival upon DNA damage. Overexpression of FOXK1 diminishes 53BP1 foci formation, which leads to resistance to PARPis and elevation of HR in BRCA1-deficient cells and decreased telomere fusion in TRF2-depleted cells. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that FOXK1 negatively regulates 53BP1 function by inhibiting 53BP1 localization to sites of DNA damage, which alters the DSB-induced protein complexes centering on 53BP1 and thus influences DNA repair choice."	1
"32375051"	"Srebf1 Controls Midbrain Dopaminergic Neurogenesis.Liver X receptors (LXRs) and their ligands are potent regulators of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurogenesis and differentiation. However, the molecular mechanisms by which LXRs control these functions remain to be elucidated. Here, we perform a combined transcriptome and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis of midbrain cells after LXR activation, followed by bioinformatic analysis to elucidate the transcriptional networks controlling mDA neurogenesis. Our results identify the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1) as part of a cluster of proneural transcription factors in radial glia and as a regulator of transcription factors controlling mDA neurogenesis, such as Foxa2. Moreover, loss- and gain-of-function experiments in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that Srebf1 is both required and sufficient for mDA neurogenesis. Our data, thus, identify Srebf1 as a central player in mDA neurogenesis."	1
"32531208"	"Structural and Biochemical Characterization of the nsp12-nsp7-nsp8 Core Polymerase Complex from SARS-CoV-2.The ongoing global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has caused a huge number of human deaths. Currently, there are no specific drugs or vaccines available for this virus (SARS-CoV-2). The viral polymerase is a promising antiviral target. Here, we describe the near-atomic-resolution structure of the SARS-CoV-2 polymerase complex consisting of the nsp12 catalytic subunit and nsp7-nsp8 cofactors. This structure highly resembles the counterpart of SARS-CoV with conserved motifs for all viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases and suggests a mechanism of activation by cofactors. Biochemical studies reveal reduced activity of the core polymerase complex and lower thermostability of individual subunits of SARS-CoV-2 compared with SARS-CoV. These findings provide important insights into RNA synthesis by coronavirus polymerase and indicate adaptation of SARS-CoV-2 toward humans with a relatively lower body temperature than the natural bat hosts."	1
"32807902"	"p27 controls Ragulator and mTOR activity in amino acid-deprived cells to regulate the autophagy-lysosomal pathway and coordinate cell cycle and cell growth.Autophagy is a catabolic process whereby cytoplasmic components are degraded within lysosomes, allowing cells to maintain energy homeostasis during nutrient depletion. Several studies reported that the CDK inhibitor p27<sup>Kip1</sup> promotes starvation-induced autophagy by an unknown mechanism. Here we find that p27 controls autophagy via an mTORC1-dependent mechanism in amino acid-deprived cells. During prolonged starvation, a fraction of p27 is recruited to lysosomes, where it interacts with LAMTOR1, a component of the Ragulator complex required for mTORC1 activation. Binding of p27 to LAMTOR1 prevents Ragulator assembly and mTORC1 activation, promoting autophagy. Conversely, p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells exhibit elevated mTORC1 signalling as well as impaired lysosomal activity and autophagy. This is associated with cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB, preventing induction of the lysosomal genes required for lysosome function. LAMTOR1 silencing or mTOR inhibition restores autophagy and induces apoptosis in p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Together, these results reveal a direct coordinated regulation between the cell cycle and cell growth machineries."	1
"32521279"	"Rrp6 Moonlights in an RNA Exosome-Independent Manner to Promote Cell Survival and Gene Expression during Stress.The nuclear RNA exosome is essential for RNA processing and degradation. Here, we show that the exosome nuclear-specific subunit Rrp6p promotes cell survival during heat stress through the cell wall integrity (CWI) pathway, independently of its catalytic activity or association with the core exosome. Rrp6p exhibits negative genetic interactions with the Slt2/Mpk1p or Paf1p elongation factors required for expression of CWI genes during stress. Overexpression of Rrp6p or of its catalytically inactive or exosome-independent mutants can partially rescue the growth defect of the mpk1Δ mutant and stimulates expression of the Mpk1p target gene FKS2. The rrp6Δ and mpk1Δ mutants show similarities in deficient expression of CWI genes during heat shock, and overexpression of the CWI gene HSP150 can rescue the stress-induced lethality of the mpk1Δrp6Δ mutant. These results demonstrate that Rrp6p moonlights independently from the exosome to ensure proper expression of CWI genes and to promote cell survival during stress."	0
"32611770"	"CaMKII enhances voltage-gated sodium channel Nav1.6 activity and neuronal excitability.Nav1.6 is the primary voltage-gated sodium channel isoform expressed in mature axon initial segments and nodes, making it critical for initiation and propagation of neuronal impulses. Thus, Nav1.6 modulation and dysfunction may have profound effects on input-output properties of neurons in normal and pathological conditions. Phosphorylation is a powerful and reversible mechanism regulating ion channel function. Because Nav1.6 and the multifunctional Ca<sup>2+</sup>/CaM-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) are independently linked to excitability disorders, we sought to investigate modulation of Nav1.6 function by CaMKII signaling. We show that inhibition of CaMKII, a Ser/Thr protein kinase associated with excitability, synaptic plasticity, and excitability disorders, with the CaMKII-specific peptide inhibitor CN21 reduces transient and persistent currents in Nav1.6-expressing Purkinje neurons by 87%. Using whole-cell voltage clamp of Nav1.6, we show that CaMKII inhibition in ND7/23 and HEK293 cells significantly reduces transient and persistent currents by 72% and produces a 5.8-mV depolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of activation. Immobilized peptide arrays and nanoflow LC-electrospray ionization/MS of Nav1.6 reveal potential sites of CaMKII phosphorylation, specifically Ser-561 and Ser-641/Thr-642 within the first intracellular loop of the channel. Using site-directed mutagenesis to test multiple potential sites of phosphorylation, we show that Ala substitutions of Ser-561 and Ser-641/Thr-642 recapitulate the depolarizing shift in activation and reduction in current density. Computational simulations to model effects of CaMKII inhibition on Nav1.6 function demonstrate dramatic reductions in spontaneous and evoked action potentials in a Purkinje cell model, suggesting that CaMKII modulation of Nav1.6 may be a powerful mechanism to regulate neuronal excitability."	0
"32755588"	"K13-Mediated Reduced Susceptibility to Artemisinin in Plasmodium falciparum Is Overlaid on a Trait of Enhanced DNA Damage Repair.Southeast Asia has been the hotbed for the development of drug-resistant malaria parasites, including those with resistance to artemisinin combination therapy. While mutations in the kelch propeller domain (K13 mutations) are associated with artemisinin resistance, a range of evidence suggests that other factors are critical for the establishment and subsequent transmission of resistance in the field. Here, we perform a quantitative analysis of DNA damage and repair in the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum and find a strong link between enhanced DNA damage repair and artemisinin resistance. This experimental observation is further supported when variations in seven known DNA repair genes are found in resistant parasites, with six of these mutations being associated with K13 mutations. Our data provide important insights on confounding factors that are important for the establishment and spread of artemisinin resistance and may explain why resistance has not yet arisen in Africa."	0
"32231305"	"Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency through Neo1 and Unc5b co-regulation of Wnt and MAPK signalling.In mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), chemical blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 (2i) instructs a self-renewing ground state whose endogenous inducers are unknown. Here we show that the axon guidance cue Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency by triggering profound signalling, transcriptomic and epigenetic changes in mESCs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Netrin-1 can substitute for blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 to sustain self-renewal of mESCs in combination with leukaemia inhibitory factor and regulates the formation of the mouse pluripotent blastocyst. Mechanistically, we reveal how Netrin-1 and the balance of its receptors Neo1 and Unc5B co-regulate Wnt and MAPK pathways in both mouse and human ESCs. Netrin-1 induces Fak kinase to inactivate Gsk3α/β and stabilize β-catenin while increasing the phosphatase activity of a Ppp2r2c-containing Pp2a complex to reduce Erk1/2 activity. Collectively, this work identifies Netrin-1 as a regulator of pluripotency and reveals that it mediates different effects in mESCs depending on its receptor dosage, opening perspectives for balancing self-renewal and lineage commitment."	1
"30612880"	"Multisite Phosphorylation of S6K1 Directs a Kinase Phospho-code that Determines Substrate Selection.Multisite phosphorylation of kinases can induce on-off or graded regulation of catalytic activity; however, its influence on substrate specificity remains unclear. Here, we show that multisite phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) alters target selection. Agonist-inducible phosphorylation of glutamyl-prolyl tRNA synthetase (EPRS) by S6K1 in monocytes and adipocytes requires not only canonical phosphorylation at Thr<sup>389</sup> by mTORC1 but also phosphorylation at Ser<sup>424</sup> and Ser<sup>429</sup> in the C terminus by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). S6K1 phosphorylation at these additional sites induces a conformational switch and is essential for high-affinity binding and phosphorylation of EPRS, but not canonical S6K1 targets, e.g., ribosomal protein S6. Unbiased proteomic analysis identified additional targets phosphorylated by multisite phosphorylated S6K1 in insulin-stimulated adipocytes-namely, coenzyme A synthase, lipocalin 2, and cortactin. Thus, embedded within S6K1 is a target-selective kinase phospho-code that integrates signals from mTORC1 and Cdk5 to direct an insulin-stimulated, post-translational metabolon determining adipocyte lipid metabolism."	1
"32668244"	"The Zscan4-Tet2 Transcription Nexus Regulates Metabolic Rewiring and Enhances Proteostasis to Promote Reprogramming.Evolutionarily conserved SCAN (named after SRE-ZBP, CTfin51, AW-1, and Number 18 cDNA)-domain-containing zinc finger transcription factors (ZSCAN) have been found in both mouse and human genomes. Zscan4 is transiently expressed during zygotic genome activation (ZGA) in preimplantation embryos and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) reprogramming. However, little is known about the mechanism of Zscan4 underlying these processes of cell fate control. Here, we show that Zscan4f, a representative of ZSCAN proteins, is able to recruit Tet2 through its SCAN domain. The Zscan4f-Tet2 interaction promotes DNA demethylation and regulates the expression of target genes, particularly those encoding glycolytic enzymes and proteasome subunits. Zscan4f regulates metabolic rewiring, enhances proteasome function, and ultimately promotes iPSC generation. These results identify Zscan4f as an important partner of Tet2 in regulating target genes and promoting iPSC generation and suggest a possible and common mechanism shared by SCAN family transcription factors to recruit ten-eleven translocation (TET) DNA dioxygenases to regulate diverse cellular processes, including reprogramming."	1
"32937141"	"Setd1a Insufficiency in Mice Attenuates Excitatory Synaptic Function and Recapitulates Schizophrenia-Related Behavioral Abnormalities.SETD1A encodes a histone methyltransferase whose de novo mutations are identified in schizophrenia (SCZ) patients and confer a large increase in disease risk. Here, we generate Setd1a mutant mice carrying the frameshift mutation that closely mimics a loss-of-function variant of SCZ. Our Setd1a (+/-) mice display various behavioral abnormalities relevant to features of SCZ, impaired excitatory synaptic transmission in layer 2/3 (L2/3) pyramidal neurons of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and altered expression of diverse genes related to neurodevelopmental disorders and synaptic functions in the mPFC. RNAi-mediated Setd1a knockdown (KD) specifically in L2/3 pyramidal neurons of the mPFC only recapitulates impaired sociality among multiple behavioral abnormalities of Setd1a (+/-) mice. Optogenetics-assisted selective stimulation of presynaptic neurons combined with Setd1a KD reveals that Setd1a at postsynaptic site is essential for excitatory synaptic transmission. Our findings suggest that reduced SETD1A may attenuate excitatory synaptic function and contribute to the pathophysiology of SCZ."	0
"32348770"	"Id1 and Id3 Maintain Steady-State Hematopoiesis by Promoting Sinusoidal Endothelial Cell Survival and Regeneration.Investigating mechanisms that regulate endothelial cell (EC) growth and survival is important for understanding EC homeostasis and how ECs maintain stem cell niches. We report here that targeted loss of Id genes in adult ECs results in dilated, leaky sinusoids and a pro-inflammatory state that increases in severity over time. Disruption in sinusoidal integrity leads to increased hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) proliferation, differentiation, migration, and exhaustion. Mechanistically, sinusoidal ECs (SECs) show increased apoptosis because of reduced Bcl2-family gene expression following Id gene ablation. Furthermore, Id1<sup>-/-</sup>Id3<sup>-/-</sup> SECs and upstream type H vessels show increased expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p21 and p27 and impaired ability to proliferate, which is rescued by reducing E2-2 expression. Id1<sup>-/-</sup>Id3<sup>-/-</sup> mice do not survive sublethal irradiation because of impaired vessel regeneration and hematopoietic failure. Thus, Id genes are required for the survival and regeneration of BM SECs during homeostasis and stress to maintain HSC development."	0
"31000436"	"Mouse ANKRD31 Regulates Spatiotemporal Patterning of Meiotic Recombination Initiation and Ensures Recombination between X and Y Sex Chromosomes.Orderly segregation of chromosomes during meiosis requires that crossovers form between homologous chromosomes by recombination. Programmed DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) initiate meiotic recombination. We identify ANKRD31 as a key component of complexes of DSB-promoting proteins that assemble on meiotic chromosome axes. Genome-wide, ANKRD31 deficiency causes delayed recombination initiation. In addition, loss of ANKRD31 alters DSB distribution because of reduced selectivity for sites that normally attract DSBs. Strikingly, ANKRD31 deficiency also abolishes uniquely high rates of recombination that normally characterize pseudoautosomal regions (PARs) of X and Y chromosomes. Consequently, sex chromosomes do not form crossovers, leading to chromosome segregation failure in ANKRD31-deficient spermatocytes. These defects co-occur with a genome-wide delay in assembling DSB-promoting proteins on autosome axes and loss of a specialized PAR-axis domain that is highly enriched for DSB-promoting proteins in wild type. Thus, we propose a model for spatiotemporal patterning of recombination by ANKRD31-dependent control of axis-associated DSB-promoting proteins."	0
"32191872"	"Ago2-Dependent Processing Allows miR-451 to Evade the Global MicroRNA Turnover Elicited during Erythropoiesis.MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are sequentially processed by two RNase III enzymes, Drosha and Dicer. miR-451 is the only known miRNA whose processing bypasses Dicer and instead relies on the slicer activity of Argonaute-2 (Ago2). miR-451 is highly conserved in vertebrates and regulates erythrocyte maturation, where it becomes the most abundant miRNA. However, the basis for the non-canonical biogenesis of miR-451 is unclear. Here, we show that Ago2 is less efficient than Dicer in processing pre-miRNAs, but this deficit is overcome when miR-144 represses Dicer in a negative-feedback loop during erythropoiesis. Loss of miR-144-mediated Dicer repression in zebrafish embryos and human cells leads to increased canonical miRNA production and impaired miR-451 maturation. Overexpression of Ago2 rescues some of the defects of miR-451 processing. Thus, the evolution of Ago2-dependent processing allows miR-451 to circumvent the global repression of canonical miRNAs elicited, in part, by the miR-144 targeting of Dicer during erythropoiesis."	1
"32675285"	"Intracellular autoactivation of TMPRSS11A, an airway epithelial transmembrane serine protease.Type II transmembrane serine proteases (TTSPs) are a group of enzymes participating in diverse biological processes. Some members of the TTSP family are implicated in viral infection. TMPRSS11A is a TTSP expressed on the surface of airway epithelial cells, which has been shown to cleave and activate spike proteins of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronaviruses (CoVs). In this study, we examined the mechanism underlying the activation cleavage of TMPRSS11A that converts the one-chain zymogen to a two-chain enzyme. By expression in human embryonic kidney 293, esophageal EC9706, and lung epithelial A549 and 16HBE cells, Western blotting, and site-directed mutagenesis, we found that the activation cleavage of human TMPRSS11A was mediated by autocatalysis. Moreover, we found that TMPRSS11A activation cleavage occurred before the protein reached the cell surface, as indicated by studies with trypsin digestion to remove cell surface proteins, treatment with cell organelle-disturbing agents to block intracellular protein trafficking, and analysis of a soluble form of TMPRSS11A without the transmembrane domain. We also showed that TMPRSS11A was able to cleave the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. These results reveal an intracellular autocleavage mechanism in TMPRSS11A zymogen activation, which differs from the extracellular zymogen activation reported in other TTSPs. These findings provide new insights into the diverse mechanisms in regulating TTSP activation."	0
"32559426"	"Place Your BETs in Combination Therapy.Combination therapy remains the cornerstone for cancer management, and understanding how to rationally partner drugs is imperative. In this issue of Molecular Cell, Shu et al. (2020) provide a tour de force multi-omic approach to identify synergistic pathways that increase the efficacy of BET bromodomain inhibitors in triple-negative breast cancer."	0
"32698014"	"Tissue-Specific Regulation of the Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway by PAGE4 Inhibition of Tankyrase.Spatiotemporal control of Wnt/β-catenin signaling is critical for organism development and homeostasis. The poly-(ADP)-ribose polymerase Tankyrase (TNKS1) promotes Wnt/β-catenin signaling through PARylation-mediated degradation of AXIN1, a component of the β-catenin destruction complex. Although Wnt/β-catenin is a niche-restricted signaling program, tissue-specific factors that regulate TNKS1 are not known. Here, we report prostate-associated gene 4 (PAGE4) as a tissue-specific TNKS1 inhibitor that robustly represses canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling in human cells, zebrafish, and mice. Structural and biochemical studies reveal that PAGE4 acts as an optimal substrate decoy that potently hijacks substrate binding sites on TNKS1 to prevent AXIN1 PARylation and degradation. Consistently, transgenic expression of PAGE4 in mice phenocopies TNKS1 knockout. Physiologically, PAGE4 is selectively expressed in stromal prostate fibroblasts and functions to establish a proper Wnt/β-catenin signaling niche through suppression of autocrine signaling. Our findings reveal a non-canonical mechanism for TNKS1 inhibition that functions to establish tissue-specific control of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway."	1
"31914399"	"Modest Declines in Proteome Quality Impair Hematopoietic Stem Cell Self-Renewal.Low protein synthesis is a feature of somatic stem cells that promotes regeneration in multiple tissues. Modest increases in protein synthesis impair stem cell function, but the mechanisms by which this occurs are largely unknown. We determine that low protein synthesis within hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is associated with elevated proteome quality in vivo. HSCs contain less misfolded and unfolded proteins than myeloid progenitors. Increases in protein synthesis cause HSCs to accumulate misfolded and unfolded proteins. To test how proteome quality affects HSCs, we examine Aars<sup>sti/sti</sup> mice that harbor a tRNA editing defect that increases amino acid misincorporation. Aars<sup>sti/sti</sup> mice exhibit reduced HSC numbers, increased proliferation, and diminished serial reconstituting activity. Misfolded proteins overwhelm the proteasome within Aars<sup>sti/sti</sup> HSCs, which is associated with increased c-Myc abundance. Deletion of one Myc allele partially rescues serial reconstitution defects in Aars<sup>sti/sti</sup> HSCs. Thus, HSCs are dependent on low protein synthesis to maintain proteostasis, which promotes their self-renewal."	0
"31982308"	"Cancer Cells Employ Nuclear Caspase-8 to Overcome the p53-Dependent G2/M Checkpoint through Cleavage of USP28.Cytosolic caspase-8 is a mediator of death receptor signaling. While caspase-8 expression is lost in some tumors, it is increased in others, indicating a conditional pro-survival function of caspase-8 in cancer. Here, we show that tumor cells employ DNA-damage-induced nuclear caspase-8 to override the p53-dependent G2/M cell-cycle checkpoint. Caspase-8 is upregulated and localized to the nucleus in multiple human cancers, correlating with treatment resistance and poor clinical outcome. Depletion of caspase-8 causes G2/M arrest, stabilization of p53, and induction of p53-dependent intrinsic apoptosis in tumor cells. In the nucleus, caspase-8 cleaves and inactivates the ubiquitin-specific peptidase 28 (USP28), preventing USP28 from de-ubiquitinating and stabilizing wild-type p53. This results in de facto p53 protein loss, switching cell fate from apoptosis toward mitosis. In summary, our work identifies a non-canonical role of caspase-8 exploited by cancer cells to override the p53-dependent G2/M cell-cycle checkpoint."	1
"31733991"	"Structural Basis of H2B Ubiquitination-Dependent H3K4 Methylation by COMPASS.The COMPASS (complex of proteins associated with Set1) complex represents the prototype of the SET1/MLL family of methyltransferases that controls gene transcription by H3K4 methylation (H3K4me). Although H2B monoubiquitination (H2Bub) is well known as a prerequisite histone mark for COMPASS activity, how H2Bub activates COMPASS remains unclear. Here, we report the cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of an extended COMPASS catalytic module (CM) bound to the H2Bub and free nucleosome. The COMPASS CM clamps onto the nucleosome disk-face via an extensive interface to capture the flexible H3 N-terminal tail. The interface also sandwiches a critical Set1 arginine-rich motif (ARM) that autoinhibits COMPASS. Unexpectedly, without enhancing COMPASS-nucleosome interaction, H2Bub activates the enzymatic assembly by packing against Swd1 and alleviating the inhibitory effect of the Set1 ARM upon fastening it to the acidic patch. By delineating the spatial configuration of the COMPASS-H2Bub-nucleosome assembly, our studies establish the structural framework for understanding the long-studied H2Bub-H3K4me histone modification crosstalk."	0
"32433974"	"Interplay between Liver X Receptor and Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1α Potentiates Interleukin-1β Production in Human Macrophages.Low-grade inflammation is constitutive of atherosclerosis, and anti-inflammatory therapy inhibiting interleukin-1β (IL-1β) reduces the rate of cardiovascular events. While cholesterol accumulation in atheroma plaque and macrophages is a major driver of the inflammatory process, the role of the LXR cholesterol sensors remains to be clarified. Murine and human macrophages were treated with LXR agonists for 48 h before Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation. Unexpectedly, we observe that, among other cytokines, LXR agonists selectively increase IL1B mRNA levels independently of TLR activation. This effect, restricted to human macrophages, is mediated by activation of HIF-1α through LXR. Accordingly, LXR agonists also potentiate other HIF-1α-dependent pathways, such as glycolysis. Treatment of human macrophages with carotid plaque homogenates also leads to induction of IL1B in an LXR-dependent manner. Thus, our work discloses a mechanism by which cholesterol and oxysterols trigger inflammation in atherosclerosis. This suggests perspectives to target IL-1β production in atherosclerotic patients."	1
"32839549"	"Epigenetic silencing of the ubiquitin ligase subunit FBXL7 impairs c-SRC degradation and promotes epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and metastasis.Epigenetic plasticity is a pivotal factor that drives metastasis. Here, we show that the promoter of the gene that encodes the ubiquitin ligase subunit FBXL7 is hypermethylated in advanced prostate and pancreatic cancers, correlating with decreased FBXL7 mRNA and protein levels. Low FBXL7 mRNA levels are predictive of poor survival in patients with pancreatic and prostatic cancers. FBXL7 mediates the ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation of active c-SRC after its phosphorylation at Ser 104. The DNA-demethylating agent decitabine recovers FBXL7 expression and limits epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and cell invasion in a c-SRC-dependent manner. In vivo, FBXL7-depleted cancer cells form tumours with a high metastatic burden. Silencing of c-SRC or treatment with the c-SRC inhibitor dasatinib together with FBXL7 depletion prevents metastases. Furthermore, decitabine reduces metastases derived from prostate and pancreatic cancer cells in a FBXL7-dependent manner. Collectively, this research implicates FBXL7 as a metastasis-suppressor gene and suggests therapeutic strategies to counteract metastatic dissemination of pancreatic and prostatic cancer cells."	1
"30904392"	"Protein Kinase C Quality Control by Phosphatase PHLPP1 Unveils Loss-of-Function Mechanism in Cancer.Protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes function as tumor suppressors in increasing contexts. In contrast to oncogenic kinases, whose function is acutely regulated by transient phosphorylation, PKC is constitutively phosphorylated following biosynthesis to yield a stable, autoinhibited enzyme that is reversibly activated by second messengers. Here, we report that the phosphatase PHLPP1 opposes PKC phosphorylation during maturation, leading to the degradation of aberrantly active species that do not become autoinhibited. Cancer-associated hotspot mutations in the pseudosubstrate of PKCβ that impair autoinhibition result in dephosphorylated and unstable enzymes. Protein-level analysis reveals that PKCα is fully phosphorylated at the PHLPP site in over 5,000 patient tumors, with higher PKC levels correlating (1) inversely with PHLPP1 levels and (2) positively with improved survival in pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Thus, PHLPP1 provides a proofreading step that maintains the fidelity of PKC autoinhibition and reveals a prominent loss-of-function mechanism in cancer by suppressing the steady-state levels of PKC."	1
"32268095"	"Gene Regulatory and Expression Differences between Mouse and Pig Limb Buds Provide Insights into the Evolutionary Emergence of Artiodactyl Traits.Digit loss/reductions are evolutionary adaptations in cursorial mammals such as pigs. To gain mechanistic insight into these processes, we performed a comparative molecular analysis of limb development in mouse and pig embryos, which revealed a loss of anterior-posterior polarity during distal progression of pig limb bud development. These alterations in pig limb buds are paralleled by changes in the mesenchymal response to Sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling, which is altered upstream of the reduction and loss of Fgf8 expression in the ectoderm that overlaps the reduced and vestigial digit rudiments of the pig handplate, respectively. Furthermore, genome-wide open chromatin profiling using equivalent developmental stages of mouse and pig limb buds reveals the functional divergence of about one-third of the regulatory genome. This study uncovers widespread alterations in the regulatory landscapes of genes essential for limb development that likely contributed to the morphological diversion of artiodactyl limbs from the pentadactyl archetype of tetrapods."	0
"32668258"	"Mitochondria-Associated Degradation Pathway (MAD) Function beyond the Outer Membrane.The mitochondria-associated degradation pathway (MAD) mediates ubiquitination and degradation of mitochondrial outer membrane (MOM) proteins by the proteasome. We find that the MAD, but not other quality-control pathways including macroautophagy, mitophagy, or mitochondrial chaperones and proteases, is critical for yeast cellular fitness under conditions of paraquat (PQ)-induced oxidative stress in mitochondria. Specifically, inhibition of the MAD increases PQ-induced defects in growth and mitochondrial quality and decreases chronological lifespan. We use mass spectrometry analysis to identify possible MAD substrates as mitochondrial proteins that exhibit increased ubiquitination in response to PQ treatment and inhibition of the MAD. We identify candidate substrates in the mitochondrial matrix and inner membrane and confirm that two matrix proteins are MAD substrates. Our studies reveal a broader function for the MAD in mitochondrial protein surveillance beyond the MOM and a major role for the MAD in cellular and mitochondrial fitness in response to chronic, low-level oxidative stress in mitochondria."	0
"30642763"	"The RNA-Binding Protein PUM2 Impairs Mitochondrial Dynamics and Mitophagy During Aging.Little information is available about how post-transcriptional mechanisms regulate the aging process. Here, we show that the RNA-binding protein Pumilio2 (PUM2), which is a translation repressor, is induced upon aging and acts as a negative regulator of lifespan and mitochondrial homeostasis. Multi-omics and cross-species analyses of PUM2 function show that it inhibits the translation of the mRNA encoding for the mitochondrial fission factor (Mff), thereby impairing mitochondrial fission and mitophagy. This mechanism is conserved in C. elegans by the PUM2 ortholog PUF-8. puf-8 knock-down in old nematodes and Pum2 CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout in the muscles of elderly mice enhances mitochondrial fission and mitophagy in both models, hence improving mitochondrial quality control and tissue homeostasis. Our data reveal how a PUM2-mediated layer of post-transcriptional regulation links altered Mff translation to mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy, thereby mediating age-related mitochondrial dysfunctions."	1
"30595434"	"Noncanonical Modulation of the eIF2 Pathway Controls an Increase in Local Translation during Neural Wiring.Local translation is rapidly regulated by extrinsic signals during neural wiring, but its control mechanisms remain elusive. Here we show that the extracellular cue Sema3A induces an initial burst in local translation that precisely controls phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2α via the unfolded protein response (UPR) kinase PERK. Strikingly, in contrast to canonical UPR signaling, Sema3A-induced eIF2α phosphorylation bypasses global translational repression and underlies an increase in local translation through differential activity of eIF2B mediated by protein phosphatase 1. Ultrasensitive proteomics analysis of axons reveals 75 proteins translationally controlled via the Sema3A-p-eIF2α pathway. These include proteostasis- and actin cytoskeleton-related proteins but not canonical stress markers. Finally, we show that PERK signaling is needed for directional axon migration and visual pathway development in vivo. Thus, our findings reveal a noncanonical eIF2 signaling pathway that controls selective changes in axon translation and is required for neural wiring."	1
"32726636"	"GSK3 Inhibits Macropinocytosis and Lysosomal Activity through the Wnt Destruction Complex Machinery.Canonical Wnt signaling is emerging as a major regulator of endocytosis. Here, we report that Wnt-induced macropinocytosis is regulated through glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) and the β-catenin destruction complex. We find that mutation of Axin1, a tumor suppressor and component of the destruction complex, results in the activation of macropinocytosis. Surprisingly, inhibition of GSK3 by lithium chloride (LiCl), CHIR99021, or dominant-negative GSK3 triggers macropinocytosis. GSK3 inhibition causes a rapid increase in acidic endolysosomes that is independent of new protein synthesis. GSK3 inhibition or Axin1 mutation increases lysosomal activity, which can be followed with tracers of active cathepsin D, β-glucosidase, and ovalbumin degradation. Microinjection of LiCl into the blastula cavity of Xenopus embryos causes a striking increase in dextran macropinocytosis. The effects of GSK3 inhibition on protein degradation in endolysosomes are blocked by the macropinocytosis inhibitors EIPA or IPA-3, suggesting that increases in membrane trafficking drive lysosomal activity."	0
"31421980"	"Transcriptional Bursting and Co-bursting Regulation by Steroid Hormone Release Pattern and Transcription Factor Mobility.Genes are transcribed in a discontinuous pattern referred to as RNA bursting, but the mechanisms regulating this process are unclear. Although many physiological signals, including glucocorticoid hormones, are pulsatile, the effects of transient stimulation on bursting are unknown. Here we characterize RNA synthesis from single-copy glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-regulated transcription sites (TSs) under pulsed (ultradian) and constant hormone stimulation. In contrast to constant stimulation, pulsed stimulation induces restricted bursting centered around the hormonal pulse. Moreover, we demonstrate that transcription factor (TF) nuclear mobility determines burst duration, whereas its bound fraction determines burst frequency. Using 3D tracking of TSs, we directly correlate TF binding and RNA synthesis at a specific promoter. Finally, we uncover a striking co-bursting pattern between TSs located at proximal and distal positions in the nucleus. Together, our data reveal a dynamic interplay between TF mobility and RNA bursting that is responsive to stimuli strength, type, modality, and duration."	0
"32905781"	"YTHDF2/3 Are Required for Somatic Reprogramming through Different RNA Deadenylation Pathways.N<sup>6</sup>-methyladenosine (m<sup>6</sup>A), the most abundant reversible modification on eukaryote messenger RNA, is recognized by a series of readers, including the YT521-B homology domain family (YTHDF) proteins, which are coupled to perform physiological functions. Here, we report that YTHDF2 and YTHDF3, but not YTHDF1, are required for reprogramming of somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Mechanistically, we found that YTHDF3 recruits the PAN2-PAN3 deadenylase complex and conduces to reprogramming by promoting mRNA clearance of somatic genes, including Tead2 and Tgfb1, which parallels the activity of the YTHDF2-CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. Ythdf2/3 deficiency represses mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition (MET) and chromatin silencing at loci containing the TEAD motif, contributing to decreased reprogramming efficiency. Moreover, RNA interference of Tgfb1 or the Hippo signaling effectors Yap1, Taz, and Tead2 rescues Ythdf2/3-defective reprogramming. Overall, YTHDF2/3 couples RNA deadenylation and regulation with the clearance of somatic genes and provides insights into iPSC reprogramming at the posttranscriptional level."	1
"30824372"	"P-TEFb Activation by RBM7 Shapes a Pro-survival Transcriptional Response to Genotoxic Stress.DNA damage response (DDR) involves dramatic transcriptional alterations, the mechanisms of which remain ill defined. Here, we show that following genotoxic stress, the RNA-binding motif protein 7 (RBM7) stimulates RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription and promotes cell viability by activating the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) via its release from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (7SK snRNP). This is mediated by activation of p38<sup>MAPK</sup>, which triggers enhanced binding of RBM7 with core subunits of 7SK snRNP. In turn, P-TEFb relocates to chromatin to induce transcription of short units, including key DDR genes and multiple classes of non-coding RNAs. Critically, interfering with the axis of RBM7 and P-TEFb provokes cellular hypersensitivity to DNA-damage-inducing agents due to activation of apoptosis. Our work uncovers the importance of stress-dependent stimulation of Pol II pause release, which enables a pro-survival transcriptional response that is crucial for cell fate upon genotoxic insult."	1
