"pmid"	"text"	"hit"
"32424038"	"CofActor: A light- and stress-gated optogenetic clustering tool to study disease-associated cytoskeletal dynamics in living cells.The hallmarks of neurodegenerative diseases, including neural fibrils, reactive oxygen species, and cofilin-actin rods, present numerous challenges in the development of <i>in vivo</i> diagnostic tools. Biomarkers such as β-amyloid (Aβ) fibrils and Tau tangles in Alzheimer's disease are accessible only via invasive cerebrospinal fluid assays, and reactive oxygen species can be fleeting and challenging to monitor <i>in vivo</i> Although remaining a challenge for <i>in vivo</i> detection, the protein-protein interactions underlying these disease-specific biomarkers present opportunities for the engineering of <i>in vitro</i> pathology-sensitive biosensors. These tools can be useful for investigating early stage events in neurodegenerative diseases in both cellular and animal models and may lead to clinically useful reagents. Here, we report a light- and cellular stress-gated protein switch based on cofilin-actin rod formation, occurring in stressed neurons in the Alzheimer's disease brain and following ischemia. By coupling the stress-sensitive cofilin-actin interaction with the light-responsive Cry2-CIB blue-light switch, referred to hereafter as the CofActor, we accomplished both light- and energetic/oxidative stress-gated control of this interaction. Site-directed mutagenesis of both cofilin and actin revealed residues critical for sustaining or abrogating the light- and stress-gated response. Of note, the switch response varied depending on whether cellular stress was generated via glycolytic inhibition or by both glycolytic inhibition and azide-induced ATP depletion. We also demonstrate light- and cellular stress-gated switch function in cultured hippocampal neurons. CofActor holds promise for the tracking of early stage events in neurodegeneration and for investigating actin's interactions with other proteins during cellular stress."	0
"32433973"	"Ubiquitylation of the ER-Shaping Protein Lunapark via the CRL3<sup>KLHL12</sup> Ubiquitin Ligase Complex.Cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) control key cellular processes by promoting ubiquitylation of a multitude of soluble cytosolic and nuclear proteins. Subsets of CRL complexes are recruited and activated locally at cellular membranes; however, few CRL functions and substrates at these distinct cellular compartments are known. Here, we use a proteomic screen to identify proteins that are ubiquitylated at cellular membranes and found that Lunapark, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-shaping protein localized to ER three-way junctions, is ubiquitylated by the CRL3<sup>KLHL12</sup> ubiquitin ligase. We demonstrate that Lunapark interacts with mechanistic target of rapamycin complex-1 (mTORC1), a central cellular regulator that coordinates growth and metabolism with environmental conditions. We show that mTORC1 binds Lunapark specifically at three-way junctions, and lysosomes, where mTORC1 is activated, make contact with three-way junctions where Lunapark resides. Inhibition of Lunapark ubiquitylation results in neurodevelopmental defects indicating that KLHL12-dependent ubiquitylation of Lunapark is required for normal growth and development."	1
"32101747"	"Class IIa Histone Deacetylases Drive Toll-like Receptor-Inducible Glycolysis and Macrophage Inflammatory Responses via Pyruvate Kinase M2.Histone deacetylases (HDACs) drive innate immune cell-mediated inflammation. Here we identify class IIa HDACs as key molecular links between Toll-like receptor (TLR)-inducible aerobic glycolysis and macrophage inflammatory responses. A proteomic screen identified the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M isoform 2 (Pkm2) as a partner of proinflammatory Hdac7 in murine macrophages. Myeloid-specific Hdac7 overexpression in transgenic mice amplifies lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-inducible lactate and promotes a glycolysis-associated inflammatory signature. Conversely, pharmacological or genetic targeting of Hdac7 and other class IIa HDACs attenuates LPS-inducible glycolysis and accompanying inflammatory responses in macrophages. We show that an Hdac7-Pkm2 complex acts as an immunometabolism signaling hub, whereby Pkm2 deacetylation at lysine 433 licenses its proinflammatory functions. Disrupting this complex suppresses inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Class IIa HDACs are thus pivotal intermediates connecting TLR-inducible glycolysis to inflammation via Pkm2."	1
"30904392"	"Protein Kinase C Quality Control by Phosphatase PHLPP1 Unveils Loss-of-Function Mechanism in Cancer.Protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes function as tumor suppressors in increasing contexts. In contrast to oncogenic kinases, whose function is acutely regulated by transient phosphorylation, PKC is constitutively phosphorylated following biosynthesis to yield a stable, autoinhibited enzyme that is reversibly activated by second messengers. Here, we report that the phosphatase PHLPP1 opposes PKC phosphorylation during maturation, leading to the degradation of aberrantly active species that do not become autoinhibited. Cancer-associated hotspot mutations in the pseudosubstrate of PKCβ that impair autoinhibition result in dephosphorylated and unstable enzymes. Protein-level analysis reveals that PKCα is fully phosphorylated at the PHLPP site in over 5,000 patient tumors, with higher PKC levels correlating (1) inversely with PHLPP1 levels and (2) positively with improved survival in pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Thus, PHLPP1 provides a proofreading step that maintains the fidelity of PKC autoinhibition and reveals a prominent loss-of-function mechanism in cancer by suppressing the steady-state levels of PKC."	1
"32807902"	"p27 controls Ragulator and mTOR activity in amino acid-deprived cells to regulate the autophagy-lysosomal pathway and coordinate cell cycle and cell growth.Autophagy is a catabolic process whereby cytoplasmic components are degraded within lysosomes, allowing cells to maintain energy homeostasis during nutrient depletion. Several studies reported that the CDK inhibitor p27<sup>Kip1</sup> promotes starvation-induced autophagy by an unknown mechanism. Here we find that p27 controls autophagy via an mTORC1-dependent mechanism in amino acid-deprived cells. During prolonged starvation, a fraction of p27 is recruited to lysosomes, where it interacts with LAMTOR1, a component of the Ragulator complex required for mTORC1 activation. Binding of p27 to LAMTOR1 prevents Ragulator assembly and mTORC1 activation, promoting autophagy. Conversely, p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells exhibit elevated mTORC1 signalling as well as impaired lysosomal activity and autophagy. This is associated with cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB, preventing induction of the lysosomal genes required for lysosome function. LAMTOR1 silencing or mTOR inhibition restores autophagy and induces apoptosis in p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Together, these results reveal a direct coordinated regulation between the cell cycle and cell growth machineries."	1
"32679077"	"Acetylation-Dependent Deubiquitinase OTUD3 Controls MAVS Activation in Innate Antiviral Immunity.Accurate regulation of innate immunity is necessary for the host to efficiently respond to invading pathogens and avoid excessive harmful immune pathology. Here we identified OTUD3 as an acetylation-dependent deubiquitinase that restricts innate antiviral immune signaling. OTUD3 deficiency in mice results in enhanced innate immunity, a diminished viral load, and morbidity. OTUD3 directly hydrolyzes lysine 63 (Lys63)-linked polyubiquitination of MAVS and thus shuts off innate antiviral immune response. Notably, the catalytic activity of OTUD3 relies on acetylation of its Lys129 residue. In response to virus infection, the acetylated Lys129 is removed by SIRT1, which promptly inactivates OTUD3 and thus allows timely induction of innate antiviral immunity. Importantly, acetyl-OTUD3 levels are inversely correlated with IFN-β expression in influenza patients. These findings establish OTUD3 as a repressor of MAVS and uncover a previously unknown regulatory mechanism by which the catalytic activity of OTUD3 is tightly controlled to ensure timely activation of antiviral defense."	1
"32783940"	"FOXK1 Participates in DNA Damage Response by Controlling 53BP1 Function.53BP1 plays a central role in dictating DNA repair choice between non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR), which is important for the sensitivity to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPis) of BRCA1-deficient cancers. In this study, we show that FOXK1 associates with 53BP1 and regulates 53BP1-dependent functions. FOXK1-53BP1 interaction is significantly enhanced upon DNA damage during the S phase in an ATM/CHK2-dependent manner, which reduces the association of 53BP1 with its downstream factors RIF1 and PTIP. Depletion of FOXK1 impairs DNA repair and induces compromised cell survival upon DNA damage. Overexpression of FOXK1 diminishes 53BP1 foci formation, which leads to resistance to PARPis and elevation of HR in BRCA1-deficient cells and decreased telomere fusion in TRF2-depleted cells. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that FOXK1 negatively regulates 53BP1 function by inhibiting 53BP1 localization to sites of DNA damage, which alters the DSB-induced protein complexes centering on 53BP1 and thus influences DNA repair choice."	1
"31981475"	"The G3BP1-Family-USP10 Deubiquitinase Complex Rescues Ubiquitinated 40S Subunits of Ribosomes Stalled in Translation from Lysosomal Degradation.Ribosome-associated quality control (RQC) purges aberrant mRNAs and nascent polypeptides in a multi-step molecular process initiated by the E3 ligase ZNF598 through sensing of ribosomes collided at aberrant mRNAs and monoubiquitination of distinct small ribosomal subunit proteins. We show that G3BP1-family-USP10 complexes are required for deubiquitination of RPS2, RPS3, and RPS10 to rescue modified 40S subunits from programmed degradation. Knockout of USP10 or G3BP1 family proteins increased lysosomal ribosomal degradation and perturbed ribosomal subunit stoichiometry, both of which were rescued by a single K214R substitution of RPS3. While the majority of RPS2 and RPS3 monoubiquitination resulted from ZNF598-dependent sensing of ribosome collisions initiating RQC, another minor pathway contributed to their monoubiquitination. G3BP1 family proteins have long been considered RNA-binding proteins, however, our results identified 40S subunits and associated mRNAs as their predominant targets, a feature shared by stress granules to which G3BP1 family proteins localize under stress."	1
"32023461"	"Wnt3a Stimulation Promotes Primary Ciliogenesis through β-Catenin Phosphorylation-Induced Reorganization of Centriolar Satellites.Primary cilium is an antenna-like microtubule-based cellular sensing structure. Abnormal regulation of the dynamic assembly and disassembly cycle of primary cilia is closely related to ciliopathy and cancer. The Wnt signaling pathway plays a major role in embryonic development and tissue homeostasis, and defects in Wnt signaling are associated with a variety of human diseases, including cancer. In this study, we provide direct evidence of Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis, which includes a continuous pathway showing that the stimulation of Wnt3a, a canonical Wnt ligand, promotes the generation of β-catenin p-S47 epitope by CK1δ, and these events lead to the reorganization of centriolar satellites resulting in primary ciliogenesis. We have also confirmed the application of our findings in MCF-7/ADR cells, a multidrug-resistant tumor cell model. Thus, our data provide a Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis pathway and may provide a clue on how to overcome multidrug resistance in cancer treatment."	1
"32049003"	"A Requirement for Argonaute 4 in Mammalian Antiviral Defense.While interferon (IFN) responses are critical for mammalian antiviral defense, induction of antiviral RNA interference (RNAi) is evident. To date, individual functions of the mammalian RNAi and micro RNA (miRNA) effector proteins Argonautes 1-4 (AGO1-AGO4) during virus infection remain undetermined. AGO2 was recently implicated in mammalian antiviral defense, so we examined antiviral activity of AGO1, AGO3, or AGO4 in IFN-competent immune cells. Only AGO4-deficient cells are hyper-susceptible to virus infection. AGO4 antiviral function is both IFN dependent and IFN independent, since AGO4 promotes IFN but also maintains antiviral capacity following prevention of IFN signaling or production. We identified AGO-loaded virus-derived short interfering RNAs (vsiRNAs), a molecular marker of antiviral RNAi, in macrophages infected with influenza or influenza lacking the IFN and RNAi suppressor NS1, which are uniquely diminished without AGO4. Importantly, AGO4-deficient influenza-infected mice have significantly higher burden and viral titers in vivo. Together, our data assign an essential role for AGO4 in mammalian antiviral defense."	0
"31940493"	"FOXD3 Regulates VISTA Expression in Melanoma.Immune checkpoint inhibitors have improved patient survival in melanoma, but the innate resistance of many patients necessitates the investigation of alternative immune targets. Many immune checkpoint proteins lack proper characterization, including V-domain Ig suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA). VISTA expression on immune cells can suppress T cell activity; however, few studies have investigated its expression and regulation in cancer cells. In this study, we observe that VISTA is expressed in melanoma patient samples and cell lines. Tumor cell-specific expression of VISTA promotes tumor onset in vivo, associated with increased intratumoral T regulatory cells, and enhanced PDL-1 expression on tumor-infiltrating macrophages. VISTA transcript levels are regulated by the stemness factor Forkhead box D3 (FOXD3). BRAF inhibition upregulates FOXD3 and reduces VISTA expression. Overall, this study demonstrates melanoma cell expression of VISTA and its regulation by FOXD3, contributing to the rationale for therapeutic strategies that combine targeted inhibitors with immune checkpoint blockade."	1
"32814047"	"Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzyme 2S Enhances Viral Replication by Inhibiting Type I IFN Production through Recruiting USP15 to Deubiquitinate TBK1.Type I interferon (IFN) plays an essential role in the host innate immune responses. Several ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) family members were reported to regulate type I IFN production and host antiviral immune responses. However, the molecular mechanisms are still not fully understood. Here, we report that UBE2S acts as a negative regulator in the type I IFN signaling pathway. Ectopic expression of UBE2S inhibits host antiviral immune responses and enhances viral replications, whereas deficiency of UBE2S enhances host antiviral immune responses and suppresses viral replications both in vitro and in vivo. Inhibition of type І IFN production by UBE2S is independent on its E2 and E3 enzymic activity. Mechanistically, UBE2S interacts with TBK1 and recruits ubiquitin-specific protease 15 (USP15) to remove Lys63 (K63)-linked polyubiquitin chains of TBK1. Our findings reveal a role of the UBE2S-USP15-TBK1 axis in the regulation of host antiviral innate immune responses."	1
"32905761"	"High Dimensional Single-Cell Analysis Reveals iNKT Cell Developmental Trajectories and Effector Fate Decision.CD1d-restricted invariant Natural Killer T (iNKT) cells represent a unique class of T lymphocytes endowed with potent regulatory and effector immune functions. Although these functions are acquired during thymic ontogeny, the sequence of events that gives rise to discrete effector subsets remains unclear. Using an unbiased single-cell transcriptomic analysis combined with functional assays, we reveal an unappreciated diversity among thymic iNKT cells, especially among iNKT1 cells. Mathematical modeling and biological methods unravel a developmental map whereby iNKT2 cells constitute a transient branching point toward the generation of iNKT1 and iNKT17 cells, which reconciles the two previously proposed models. In addition, we identify the transcription co-factor Four-and-a-half LIM domains protein 2 (FHL2) as a critical cell-intrinsic regulator of iNKT1 specification. Thus, these data illustrate the changing transcriptional network that guides iNKT cell effector fate."	0
"30898438"	"MDC1 Interacts with TOPBP1 to Maintain Chromosomal Stability during Mitosis.In mitosis, cells inactivate DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathways to preserve genome stability. However, some early signaling events still occur, such as recruitment of the scaffold protein MDC1 to phosphorylated histone H2AX at DSBs. Yet, it remains unclear whether these events are important for maintaining genome stability during mitosis. Here, we identify a highly conserved protein-interaction surface in MDC1 that is phosphorylated by CK2 and recognized by the DNA-damage response mediator protein TOPBP1. Disruption of MDC1-TOPBP1 binding causes a specific loss of TOPBP1 recruitment to DSBs in mitotic but not interphase cells, accompanied by mitotic radiosensitivity, increased micronuclei, and chromosomal instability. Mechanistically, we find that TOPBP1 forms filamentous structures capable of bridging MDC1 foci in mitosis, indicating that MDC1-TOPBP1 complexes tether DSBs until repair is reactivated in the following G1 phase. Thus, we reveal an important, hitherto-unnoticed cooperation between MDC1 and TOPBP1 in maintaining genome stability during cell division."	1
"31968262"	"Memory B Cell Activation, Broad Anti-influenza Antibodies, and Bystander Activation Revealed by Single-Cell Transcriptomics.Antibody memory protects humans from many diseases. Protective antibody memory responses require activation of transcriptional programs, cell proliferation, and production of antigen-specific antibodies, but how these aspects of the response are coordinated is poorly understood. We profile the molecular and cellular features of the antibody response to influenza vaccination by integrating single-cell transcriptomics, longitudinal antibody repertoire sequencing, and antibody binding measurements. Single-cell transcriptional profiling reveals a program of memory B cell activation characterized by CD11c and T-bet expression associated with clonal expansion and differentiation toward effector function. Vaccination elicits an antibody clone, which rapidly acquired broad high-affinity hemagglutinin binding during affinity maturation. Unexpectedly, many antibody clones elicited by vaccination do not bind vaccine, demonstrating non-specific activation of bystander antibodies by influenza vaccination. These results offer insight into how molecular recognition, transcriptional programs, and clonal proliferation are coordinated in the human B cell repertoire during memory recall."	0
"32839550"	"The hidden side of PD-L1."	0
"32101751"	"TIFAB Regulates USP15-Mediated p53 Signaling during Stressed and Malignant Hematopoiesis.TRAF-interacting protein with a forkhead-associated domain B (TIFAB) is implicated in myeloid malignancies with deletion of chromosome 5q. Employing a combination of proteomic and genetic approaches, we find that TIFAB regulates ubiquitin-specific peptidase 15 (USP15) ubiquitin hydrolase activity. Expression of TIFAB in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) permits USP15 signaling to substrates, including MDM2 and KEAP1, and mitigates p53 expression. Consequently, TIFAB-deficient HSPCs exhibit compromised USP15 signaling and are sensitized to hematopoietic stress by derepression of p53. In MLL-AF9 leukemia, deletion of TIFAB increases p53 signaling and correspondingly decreases leukemic cell function and development of leukemia. Restoring USP15 expression partially rescues the function of TIFAB-deficient MLL-AF9 cells. Conversely, elevated TIFAB represses p53, increases leukemic progenitor function, and correlates with MLL gene expression programs in leukemia patients. Our studies uncover a function of TIFAB as an effector of USP15 activity and rheostat of p53 signaling in stressed and malignant HSPCs."	1
"32839548"	"Cell-cell adhesion and 3D matrix confinement determine jamming transitions in breast cancer invasion.Plasticity of cancer invasion and metastasis depends on the ability of cancer cells to switch between collective and single-cell dissemination, controlled by cadherin-mediated cell-cell junctions. In clinical samples, E-cadherin-expressing and -deficient tumours both invade collectively and metastasize equally, implicating additional mechanisms controlling cell-cell cooperation and individualization. Here, using spatially defined organotypic culture, intravital microscopy of mammary tumours in mice and in silico modelling, we identify cell density regulation by three-dimensional tissue boundaries to physically control collective movement irrespective of the composition and stability of cell-cell junctions. Deregulation of adherens junctions by downregulation of E-cadherin and p120-catenin resulted in a transition from coordinated to uncoordinated collective movement along extracellular boundaries, whereas single-cell escape depended on locally free tissue space. These results indicate that cadherins and extracellular matrix confinement cooperate to determine unjamming transitions and stepwise epithelial fluidization towards, ultimately, cell individualization."	0
"32579917"	"Local miRNA-Dependent Translational Control of GABA<sub>A</sub>R Synthesis during Inhibitory Long-Term Potentiation.Molecular mechanisms underlying plasticity at brain inhibitory synapses remain poorly characterized. Increased postsynaptic clustering of GABA<sub>A</sub> receptors (GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs) rapidly strengthens inhibition during inhibitory long-term potentiation (iLTP). However, it is unclear how synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>R clustering is maintained to sustain iLTP. Here, we identify a role for miR376c in regulating the translation of mRNAs encoding the synaptic α1 and γ2 GABA<sub>A</sub>R subunits, GABRA1 and GABRG2, respectively. Following iLTP induction, transcriptional repression of miR376c is induced through a calcineurin-NFAT-HDAC signaling pathway and promotes increased translation and clustering of synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs. This pathway is essential for the long-term expression of iLTP and is blocked by miR376c overexpression, specifically impairing inhibitory synaptic strength. Finally, we show that local de novo synthesis of synaptic GABA<sub>A</sub>Rs occurs exclusively in dendrites and in a miR376c-dependent manner following iLTP. Together, this work describes a local post-transcriptional mechanism that regulates inhibitory synaptic plasticity via miRNA control of dendritic protein synthesis."	1
"32877667"	"CD49a Regulates Cutaneous Resident Memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T Cell Persistence and Response.CD8<sup>+</sup> tissue-resident memory T cells (T<sub>RM</sub>) persist at sites of previous infection, where they provide rapid local protection against pathogen challenge. CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> expressing the α1 chain (CD49a) of integrin VLA-1 have been identified within sites of resolved skin infection and in vitiligo lesions. We demonstrate that CD49a is expressed early following T cell activation in vivo, and TGF-β and IL-12 induce CD49a expression by CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in vitro. Despite this rapid expression, CD49a is not required for the generation of a primary CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell response to cutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, migration of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells across the epidermal basement membrane, or positioning of T<sub>RM</sub> within basal epidermis. Rather, CD49a supports CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> persistence within skin, regulates epidermal CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> dendritic extensions, and increases the frequency of IFN-γ<sup>+</sup> CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> following local antigen challenge. Our results suggest that CD49a promotes optimal cutaneous CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub>-mediated immunity."	1
"32115408"	"Cerebral organoid and mouse models reveal a RAB39b-PI3K-mTOR pathway-dependent dysregulation of cortical development leading to macrocephaly/autism phenotypes.Dysregulation of early neurodevelopment is implicated in macrocephaly/autism disorders. However, the mechanism underlying this dysregulation, particularly in human cells, remains poorly understood. Mutations in the small GTPase gene <i>RAB39b</i> are associated with X-linked macrocephaly, autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and intellectual disability. The in vivo roles of RAB39b in the brain remain unknown. We generated <i>Rab39b</i> knockout (KO) mice and found that they exhibited cortical neurogenesis impairment, macrocephaly, and hallmark ASD behaviors, which resembled patient phenotypes. We also produced mutant human cerebral organoids that were substantially enlarged due to the overproliferation and impaired differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs), which resemble neurodevelopmental deficits in KO mice. Mechanistic studies reveal that RAB39b interacts with PI3K components and its deletion promotes PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling in NPCs of mouse cortex and cerebral organoids. The mTOR activity is robustly enhanced in mutant outer radial glia cells (oRGs), a subtype of NPCs barely detectable in rodents but abundant in human brains. Inhibition of AKT signaling rescued enlarged organoid sizes and NPC overproliferation caused by <i>RAB39b</i> mutations. Therefore, <i>RAB39b</i> mutation promotes PI3K-AKT-mTOR activity and alters cortical neurogenesis, leading to macrocephaly and autistic-like behaviors. Our studies provide new insights into neurodevelopmental dysregulation and common pathways associated with ASD across species."	1
"30981630"	"Structural Basis of Dot1L Stimulation by Histone H2B Lysine 120 Ubiquitination.The essential histone H3 lysine 79 methyltransferase Dot1L regulates transcription and genomic stability and is deregulated in leukemia. The activity of Dot1L is stimulated by mono-ubiquitination of histone H2B on lysine 120 (H2BK120Ub); however, the detailed mechanism is not understood. We report cryo-EM structures of human Dot1L bound to (1) H2BK120Ub and (2) unmodified nucleosome substrates at 3.5 Å and 4.9 Å, respectively. Comparison of both structures, complemented with biochemical experiments, provides critical insights into the mechanism of Dot1L stimulation by H2BK120Ub. Both structures show Dot1L binding to the same extended surface of the histone octamer. In yeast, this surface is used by silencing proteins involved in heterochromatin formation, explaining the mechanism of their competition with Dot1. These results provide a strong foundation for understanding conserved crosstalk between histone modifications found at actively transcribed genes and offer a general model of how ubiquitin might regulate the activity of chromatin enzymes."	0
"32518153"	"Biological and catalytic functions of sirtuin 6 as targets for small-molecule modulators.Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a nuclear NAD<sup>+</sup>-dependent deacetylase of histone H3 that regulates genome stability and gene expression. However, nonhistone substrates and additional catalytic activities of SIRT6, including long-chain deacylation and mono-ADP-ribosylation of other proteins, have also been reported, but many of these noncanonical roles remain enigmatic. Genetic studies have revealed critical homeostatic cellular functions of SIRT6, underscoring the need to better understand which catalytic functions and molecular pathways are driving SIRT6-associated phenotypes. At the physiological level, SIRT6 activity promotes increased longevity by regulating metabolism and DNA repair. Recent work has identified natural products and synthetic small molecules capable of activating the inefficient <i>in vitro</i> deacetylase activity of SIRT6. Here, we discuss the cellular functions of SIRT6 with a focus on attributing its catalytic activity to its proposed biological functions. We cover the molecular architecture and catalytic mechanisms that distinguish SIRT6 from other NAD<sup>+</sup>-dependent deacylases. We propose that combining specific SIRT6 amino acid substitutions identified in enzymology studies and activity-selective compounds could help delineate SIRT6 functions in specific biological contexts and resolve the apparently conflicting roles of SIRT6 in processes such as tumor development. We further highlight the recent development of small-molecule modulators that provide additional biological insight into SIRT6 functions and offer therapeutic approaches to manage metabolic and age-associated diseases."	0
"32433974"	"Interplay between Liver X Receptor and Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1α Potentiates Interleukin-1β Production in Human Macrophages.Low-grade inflammation is constitutive of atherosclerosis, and anti-inflammatory therapy inhibiting interleukin-1β (IL-1β) reduces the rate of cardiovascular events. While cholesterol accumulation in atheroma plaque and macrophages is a major driver of the inflammatory process, the role of the LXR cholesterol sensors remains to be clarified. Murine and human macrophages were treated with LXR agonists for 48 h before Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation. Unexpectedly, we observe that, among other cytokines, LXR agonists selectively increase IL1B mRNA levels independently of TLR activation. This effect, restricted to human macrophages, is mediated by activation of HIF-1α through LXR. Accordingly, LXR agonists also potentiate other HIF-1α-dependent pathways, such as glycolysis. Treatment of human macrophages with carotid plaque homogenates also leads to induction of IL1B in an LXR-dependent manner. Thus, our work discloses a mechanism by which cholesterol and oxysterols trigger inflammation in atherosclerosis. This suggests perspectives to target IL-1β production in atherosclerotic patients."	1
"30898439"	"Inheritance of a Phenotypically Neutral Epimutation Evokes Gene Silencing in Later Generations.Small RNAs trigger the formation of epialleles that are silenced across generations. Consequently, RNA-directed epimutagenesis is associated with persistent gene repression. Here, we demonstrate that small interfering RNA-induced epimutations in fission yeast are still inherited even when the silenced gene is reactivated, and descendants can reinstate the silencing phenotype that only occurred in their ancestors. This process is mediated by the deposition of a phenotypically neutral molecular mark composed of tri-methylated histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9me3). Its stable propagation is coupled to RNAi and requires maximal binding affinity of the Clr4/Suvar39 chromodomain to H3K9me3. In wild-type cells, this mark has no visible impact on transcription but causes gene silencing if RNA polymerase-associated factor 1 complex (Paf1C) activity is impaired. In sum, our results reveal a distinct form of epigenetic memory in which cells acquire heritable, transcriptionally active epialleles that confer gene silencing upon modulation of Paf1C."	0
"31629659"	"KDM3A Senses Oxygen Availability to Regulate PGC-1α-Mediated Mitochondrial Biogenesis.Hypoxia, which occurs during tumor growth, triggers complex adaptive responses in which peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α) plays a critical role in mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism. However, how PGC-1α is regulated in response to oxygen availability remains unclear. We demonstrated that lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) binds to PGC-1α and demethylates monomethylated lysine (K) 224 of PGC-1α under normoxic conditions. Hypoxic stimulation inhibits KDM3A, which has a high K<sub>M</sub> of oxygen for its activity, and enhances PGC-1α K224 monomethylation. This modification decreases PGC-1α's activity required for NRF1- and NRF2-dependent transcriptional regulation of TFAM, TFB1M, and TFB2M, resulting in reduced mitochondrial biogenesis. Expression of PGC-1α K224R mutant significantly increases mitochondrial biogenesis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and tumor cell apoptosis under hypoxia and inhibits brain tumor growth in mice. This study revealed that PGC-1α monomethylation, which is dependent on oxygen availability-regulated KDM3A, plays a critical role in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis."	1
"32846116"	"The Zebrafish Dorsolateral Habenula Is Required for Updating Learned Behaviors.Operant learning requires multiple cognitive processes, such as learning, prediction of potential outcomes, and decision-making. It is less clear how interactions of these processes lead to the behavioral adaptations that allow animals to cope with a changing environment. We show that juvenile zebrafish can perform conditioned place avoidance learning, with improving performance across development. Ablation of the dorsolateral habenula (dlHb), a brain region involved in associative learning and prediction of outcomes, leads to an unexpected improvement in performance and delayed memory extinction. Interestingly, the control animals exhibit rapid adaptation to a changing learning rule, whereas dlHb-ablated animals fail to adapt. Altogether, our results show that the dlHb plays a central role in switching animals' strategies while integrating new evidence with prior experience."	0
"32877671"	"Tp53 Suppression Promotes Cardiomyocyte Proliferation during Zebrafish Heart Regeneration.Zebrafish regenerate heart muscle through division of pre-existing cardiomyocytes. To discover underlying regulation, we assess transcriptome datasets for dynamic gene networks during heart regeneration and identify suppression of genes associated with the transcription factor Tp53. Cardiac damage leads to fluctuation of Tp53 protein levels, concomitant with induced expression of its central negative regulator, mdm2, in regenerating cardiomyocytes. Zebrafish lacking functional Tp53 display increased indicators of cardiomyocyte proliferation during regeneration, whereas transgenic Mdm2 blockade inhibits injury-induced cardiomyocyte proliferation. Induced myocardial overexpression of the mitogenic factors Nrg1 or Vegfaa in the absence of injury also upregulates mdm2 and suppresses Tp53 levels, and tp53 mutations augment the mitogenic effects of Nrg1. mdm2 induction is spatiotemporally associated with markers of de-differentiation in injury and growth contexts, suggesting a broad role in cardiogenesis. Our findings reveal myocardial Tp53 suppression by mitogen-induced Mdm2 as a regulatory component of innate cardiac regeneration."	1
"32814043"	"Proteolytic Restriction of Chordin Range Underlies BMP Gradient Formation.A fundamental question in developmental biology is how morphogens, such as bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), form precise signaling gradients to impart positional and functional identity to the cells of the early embryo. We combine rigorous mutant analyses with quantitative immunofluorescence to determine that the proteases Bmp1a and Tolloid spatially restrict the BMP antagonist Chordin in dorsoventral (DV) axial patterning of the early zebrafish gastrula. We show that maternally deposited Bmp1a plays an unexpected and non-redundant role in establishing the BMP signaling gradient, while the Bmp1a/Tolloid antagonist Sizzled is surprisingly dispensable. Combining computational modeling and in vivo analyses with an immobile Chordin construct, we demonstrate that long-range Chordin diffusion is not necessary for BMP gradient formation and DV patterning. Our data do not support a counter-gradient of Chordin and instead favor a Chordin sink, established by Bmp1a and Tolloid, as the primary mechanism that drives BMP gradient formation."	1
"31492635"	"PTEN Suppresses Glycolysis by Dephosphorylating and Inhibiting Autophosphorylated PGK1.The PTEN tumor suppressor is frequently mutated or deleted in cancer and regulates glucose metabolism through the PI3K-AKT pathway. However, whether PTEN directly regulates glycolysis in tumor cells is unclear. We demonstrate here that PTEN directly interacts with phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1). PGK1 functions not only as a glycolytic enzyme but also as a protein kinase intermolecularly autophosphorylating itself at Y324 for activation. The protein phosphatase activity of PTEN dephosphorylates and inhibits autophosphorylated PGK1, thereby inhibiting glycolysis, ATP production, and brain tumor cell proliferation. In addition, knockin expression of a PGK1 Y324F mutant inhibits brain tumor formation. Analyses of human glioblastoma specimens reveals that PGK1 Y324 phosphorylation levels inversely correlate with PTEN expression status and are positively associated with poor prognosis in glioblastoma patients. This work highlights the instrumental role of PGK1 autophosphorylation in its activation and PTEN protein phosphatase activity in governing glycolysis and tumorigenesis."	1
"32579915"	"Precise Temporal Regulation of Post-transcriptional Repressors Is Required for an Orderly Drosophila Maternal-to-Zygotic Transition.In animal embryos, the maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT) hands developmental control from maternal to zygotic gene products. We show that the maternal proteome represents more than half of the protein-coding capacity of Drosophila melanogaster's genome, and that 2% of this proteome is rapidly degraded during the MZT. Cleared proteins include the post-transcriptional repressors Cup, Trailer hitch (TRAL), Maternal expression at 31B (ME31B), and Smaug (SMG). Although the ubiquitin-proteasome system is necessary for clearance of these repressors, distinct E3 ligase complexes target them: the C-terminal to Lis1 Homology (CTLH) complex targets Cup, TRAL, and ME31B for degradation early in the MZT and the Skp/Cullin/F-box-containing (SCF) complex targets SMG at the end of the MZT. Deleting the C-terminal 233 amino acids of SMG abrogates F-box protein interaction and confers immunity to degradation. Persistent SMG downregulates zygotic re-expression of mRNAs whose maternal contribution is degraded by SMG. Thus, clearance of SMG permits an orderly MZT."	0
"32697991"	"Cell Competition, the Kinetics of Thymopoiesis, and Thymus Cellularity Are Regulated by Double-Negative 2 to 3 Early Thymocytes.Cell competition in the thymus is a homeostatic process that drives turnover. If the process is impaired, thymopoiesis can be autonomously maintained for several weeks, but this causes leukemia. We aimed to understand the effect of cell competition on thymopoiesis, identify the cells involved, and determine how the process is regulated. Using thymus transplantation experiments, we found that cell competition occurs within the double-negative 2 (DN2) and 3 early (DN3e) thymocytes and inhibits thymus autonomy. Furthermore, the expansion of DN2b is regulated by a negative feedback loop that is imposed by double-positive thymocytes and determines the kinetics of thymopoiesis. This feedback loop affects the cell cycle duration of DN2b, in a response controlled by interleukin 7 availability. Altogether, we show that thymocytes do not merely follow a pre-determined path if provided with the correct signals. Instead, thymopoiesis dynamically integrates cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous aspects that fine-tune normal thymus function."	0
"32101753"	"Auto-ubiquitination of NEDD4-1 Recruits USP13 to Facilitate Autophagy through Deubiquitinating VPS34.The class III phosphoinositide 3-kinase vacuolar protein sorting 34 (VPS34) is a core protein of autophagy initiation, yet the regulatory mechanisms responsible for its stringent control remain poorly understood. Here, we report that the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4-1 promotes the autophagy flux by targeting VPS34. NEDD4-1 undergoes lysine 29 (K29)-linked auto-ubiquitination at K1279 and serves as a scaffold for recruiting the ubiquitin-specific protease 13 (USP13) to form an NEDD4-1-USP13 deubiquitination complex, which subsequently stabilizes VPS34 to promote autophagy through removing the K48-linked poly-ubiquitin chains from VPS34 at K419. Knockout of either NEDD4-1 or USP13 increased K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation of VPS34, thus attenuating the formation of the autophagosome. Our results identify an essential role for NEDD4-1 in regulating autophagy, which provides molecular insights into the mechanisms by which ubiquitination regulates autophagy flux."	1
"32451439"	"ROCK-mediated selective activation of PERK signalling causes fibroblast reprogramming and tumour progression through a CRELD2-dependent mechanism.It is well accepted that cancers co-opt the microenvironment for their growth. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie cancer-microenvironment interactions are still poorly defined. Here, we show that Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) in the mammary tumour epithelium selectively actuates protein-kinase-R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), causing the recruitment and persistent education of tumour-promoting cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which are part of the cancer microenvironment. An analysis of tumours from patients and mice reveals that cysteine-rich with EGF-like domains 2 (CRELD2) is the paracrine factor that underlies PERK-mediated CAF education downstream of ROCK. We find that CRELD2 is regulated by PERK-regulated ATF4, and depleting CRELD2 suppressed tumour progression, demonstrating that the paracrine ROCK-PERK-ATF4-CRELD2 axis promotes the progression of breast cancer, with implications for cancer therapy."	1
"32492422"	"Anandamide Metabolites Protect against Seizures through the TRP Channel Water Witch in Drosophila melanogaster.Endocannabinoids protect against seizures, but their mechanism of action is still unclear, as they can have effects independent of known cannabinoid receptors. Using Drosophila melanogaster, which lacks canonical cannabinoid receptors, we report that the endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol protect against seizures in multiple fly seizure models. Surprisingly, inhibition of anandamide catabolism renders flies insensitive to protection by anandamide, indicating that anandamide metabolites are responsible for seizure protection. Consistent with this finding, arachidonic acid, a direct metabolite of anandamide, protects against seizures. To identify downstream effectors, we test for a role of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels and find that the TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine blocks the protective effect of anandamide. Also, a targeted genetic screen of TRP channels identifies water witch as a mediator of protection by anandamide. Using a Drosophila model, we reveal the role of arachidonic acid in seizure protection and identify a cannabinoid-receptor-1/2-independent mechanism of endocannabinoid seizure protection."	0
"32101746"	"Mechanism of Crosstalk between the LSD1 Demethylase and HDAC1 Deacetylase in the CoREST Complex.The transcriptional corepressor complex CoREST is one of seven histone deacetylase complexes that regulate the genome through controlling chromatin acetylation. The CoREST complex is unique in containing both histone demethylase and deacetylase enzymes, LSD1 and HDAC1, held together by the RCOR1 scaffold protein. To date, it has been assumed that the enzymes function independently within the complex. Now, we report the assembly of the ternary complex. Using both structural and functional studies, we show that the activity of the two enzymes is closely coupled and that the complex can exist in at least two distinct states with different kinetics. Electron microscopy of the complex reveals a bi-lobed structure with LSD1 and HDAC1 enzymes at opposite ends of the complex. The structure of CoREST in complex with a nucleosome reveals a mode of chromatin engagement that contrasts with previous models."	0
"32905781"	"YTHDF2/3 Are Required for Somatic Reprogramming through Different RNA Deadenylation Pathways.N<sup>6</sup>-methyladenosine (m<sup>6</sup>A), the most abundant reversible modification on eukaryote messenger RNA, is recognized by a series of readers, including the YT521-B homology domain family (YTHDF) proteins, which are coupled to perform physiological functions. Here, we report that YTHDF2 and YTHDF3, but not YTHDF1, are required for reprogramming of somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Mechanistically, we found that YTHDF3 recruits the PAN2-PAN3 deadenylase complex and conduces to reprogramming by promoting mRNA clearance of somatic genes, including Tead2 and Tgfb1, which parallels the activity of the YTHDF2-CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. Ythdf2/3 deficiency represses mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition (MET) and chromatin silencing at loci containing the TEAD motif, contributing to decreased reprogramming efficiency. Moreover, RNA interference of Tgfb1 or the Hippo signaling effectors Yap1, Taz, and Tead2 rescues Ythdf2/3-defective reprogramming. Overall, YTHDF2/3 couples RNA deadenylation and regulation with the clearance of somatic genes and provides insights into iPSC reprogramming at the posttranscriptional level."	1
"32460017"	"Pyruvate Kinase M2 Promotes the Activation of Dendritic Cells by Enhancing IL-12p35 Expression.Dendritic cells (DCs) play a central role in both innate and adaptive immunity. Emerging evidence has demonstrated metabolic reprogramming during DC activation. However, how DC activation is linked with metabolic reprogramming remains unclear. Here we show that pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), the rate-limiting enzyme in the last step of glycolysis, is critical for LPS-induced DC activation. Upon DC activation, JNK signaling stimulated p300 association with PKM2 for the acetylation of lysine 433, a classic posttranslational modification critical for PKM2 destabilization and nuclear re-localization. Subsequently, nuclear PKM2 partnered with c-Rel to enhance Il12p35 expression, which is important for Th1 cell differentiation. Meanwhile, decreased enzymatic activity of PKM2 due to detetramerization facilitated glycolysis and fatty acid synthesis, helping DCs meet their need for biomacromolecules. Together, we provide evidence for metabolic control of DC activation and offer insights into aberrant immune responses due to dysregulated Th1 functions."	1
"31968242"	"Modulation of Coordinated Activity across Cortical Layers by Plasticity of Inhibitory Synapses.In the neocortex, synaptic inhibition shapes all forms of spontaneous and sensory evoked activity. Importantly, inhibitory transmission is highly plastic, but the functional role of inhibitory synaptic plasticity is unknown. In the mouse barrel cortex, activation of layer (L) 2/3 pyramidal neurons (PNs) elicits strong feedforward inhibition (FFI) onto L5 PNs. We find that FFI involving parvalbumin (PV)-expressing cells is strongly potentiated by postsynaptic PN burst firing. FFI plasticity modifies the PN excitation-to-inhibition (E/I) ratio, strongly modulates PN gain, and alters information transfer across cortical layers. Moreover, our LTPi-inducing protocol modifies firing of L5 PNs and alters the temporal association of PN spikes to γ-oscillations both in vitro and in vivo. All of these effects are captured by unbalancing the E/I ratio in a feedforward inhibition circuit model. Altogether, our results indicate that activity-dependent modulation of perisomatic inhibitory strength effectively influences the participation of single principal cortical neurons to cognition-relevant network activity."	0
"31902668"	"MicroRNAs Cause Accelerated Decay of Short-Tailed Target mRNAs.MicroRNAs (miRNAs) specify the recruitment of deadenylases to mRNA targets. Despite this recruitment, we find that miRNAs have almost no effect on steady-state poly(A)-tail lengths of their targets in mouse fibroblasts, which motivates the acquisition of pre-steady-state measurements of the effects of miRNAs on tail lengths, mRNA levels, and translational efficiencies. Effects on translational efficiency are minimal compared to effects on mRNA levels, even for newly transcribed target mRNAs. Effects on target mRNA levels accumulate as the mRNA population approaches steady state, whereas effects on tail lengths peak for recently transcribed target mRNAs and then subside. Computational modeling of this phenomenon reveals that miRNAs cause not only accelerated deadenylation of their targets but also accelerated decay of short-tailed target molecules. This unanticipated effect of miRNAs largely prevents short-tailed target mRNAs from accumulating despite accelerated target deadenylation. The net result is a nearly imperceptible change to the steady-state tail-length distribution of targeted mRNAs."	0
"32492424"	"Critical Roles of Translation Initiation and RNA Uridylation in Endogenous Retroviral Expression and Neural Differentiation in Pluripotent Stem Cells.Previous studies have suggested that the loss of the translation initiation factor eIF4G1 homolog NAT1 induces excessive self-renewability of naive pluripotent stem cells (PSCs); yet the role of NAT1 in the self-renewal and differentiation of primed PSCs is still unclear. Here, we generate a conditional knockout of NAT1 in primed PSCs and use the cells for the functional analyses of NAT1. Our results show that NAT1 is required for the self-renewal and neural differentiation of primed PSCs. In contrast, NAT1 deficiency in naive pluripotency attenuates the differentiation to all cell types. We also find that NAT1 is involved in efficient protein expression of an RNA uridyltransferase, TUT7. TUT7 is involved in the neural differentiation of primed PSCs via the regulation of human endogenous retrovirus accumulation. These data demonstrate the essential roles of NAT1 and TUT7 in the precise transition of stem cell fate."	1
"32268090"	"TBK1 and IKKε Act Redundantly to Mediate STING-Induced NF-κB Responses in Myeloid Cells.Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) is a critical component of host innate immune defense but can contribute to chronic autoimmune or autoinflammatory disease. Once activated, the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-adenosine monophosphate (AMP) (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS)-STING pathway induces both type I interferon (IFN) expression and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-mediated cytokine production. Currently, these two signaling arms are thought to be mediated by a single upstream kinase, TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). Here, using genetic and pharmacological approaches, we show that TBK1 alone is dispensable for STING-induced NF-κB responses in human and mouse immune cells, as well as in vivo. We further demonstrate that TBK1 acts redundantly with IκB kinase ε (IKKε) to drive NF-κB upon STING activation. Interestingly, we show that activation of IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) is highly dependent on TBK1 kinase activity, whereas NF-κB is significantly less sensitive to TBK1/IKKε kinase inhibition. Our work redefines signaling events downstream of cGAS-STING. Our findings further suggest that cGAS-STING will need to be targeted directly to effectively ameliorate the inflammation underpinning disorders associated with STING hyperactivity."	1
"32675283"	"Maintenance of hook complex integrity and centrin arm assembly facilitates flagellum inheritance in <i>Trypanosoma brucei</i>.Inheritance of the newly assembled flagellum in the human parasite <i>Trypanosoma brucei</i> depends on the faithful duplication and segregation of multiple flagellum-associated cytoskeletal structures, including the hook complex and its associated centrin arm. The biological functions of this unique hook complex-centrin arm assembly remain poorly understood. Here, we report a hook complex-associated protein named BOH2 that plays an essential role in promoting flagellum inheritance. BOH2 localizes to the hooked part of the hook complex by bridging the hook complex, the centrin arm, and the flagellum attachment zone filament. Depletion of BOH2 caused the loss of the shank part of the hook complex and its associated protein TbSmee1, disrupted the assembly of the centrin arm and the recruitment of centrin arm-associated protein CAAP1, inhibited the assembly of the flagellum attachment zone, and caused flagellum mispositioning and detachment. These results demonstrate crucial roles of BOH2 in maintaining hook complex integrity and promoting centrin arm formation and suggest that proper assembly of the hook complex-centrin arm structure facilitates flagellum inheritance."	0
"32203415"	"Copper is an essential regulator of the autophagic kinases ULK1/2 to drive lung adenocarcinoma.Although the transition metal copper (Cu) is an essential nutrient that is conventionally viewed as a static cofactor within enzyme active sites, a non-traditional role for Cu as a modulator of kinase signalling is emerging. Here, we found that Cu is required for the activity of the autophagic kinases ULK1 and ULK2 (ULK1/2) through a direct Cu-ULK1/2 interaction. Genetic loss of the Cu transporter Ctr1 or mutations in ULK1 that disrupt the binding of Cu reduced ULK1/2-dependent signalling and the formation of autophagosome complexes. Increased levels of intracellular Cu are associated with starvation-induced autophagy and are sufficient to enhance ULK1 kinase activity and, in turn, autophagic flux. The growth and survival of lung tumours driven by KRAS<sup>G12D</sup> is diminished in the absence of Ctr1, is dependent on ULK1 Cu binding and is associated with reduced levels of autophagy and signalling. These findings suggest a molecular basis for exploiting Cu-chelation therapy to prevent autophagy signalling to limit proliferation and improve patient survival in cancer."	1
"30503772"	"Small and Large Ribosomal Subunit Deficiencies Lead to Distinct Gene Expression Signatures that Reflect Cellular Growth Rate.Levels of the ribosome, the conserved molecular machine that mediates translation, are tightly linked to cellular growth rate. In humans, ribosomopathies are diseases associated with cell-type-specific pathologies and reduced ribosomal protein (RP) levels. Because gene expression defects resulting from ribosome deficiency have not yet been experimentally defined, we systematically probed mRNA, translation, and protein signatures that were either unlinked from or linked to cellular growth rate in RP-deficient yeast cells. Ribosome deficiency was associated with altered translation of gene subclasses, and profound general secondary effects of RP loss on the spectrum of cellular mRNAs were seen. Among these effects, growth-defective 60S mutants increased synthesis of proteins involved in proteasome-mediated degradation, whereas 40S mutants accumulated mature 60S subunits and increased translation of ribosome biogenesis genes. These distinct signatures of protein synthesis suggest intriguing and currently mysterious differences in the cellular consequences of deficiency for small and large ribosomal subunits."	0
"31940491"	"Cancer-Specific Loss of p53 Leads to a Modulation of Myeloid and T Cell Responses.Loss of p53 function contributes to the development of many cancers. While cell-autonomous consequences of p53 mutation have been studied extensively, the role of p53 in regulating the anti-tumor immune response is still poorly understood. Here, we show that loss of p53 in cancer cells modulates the tumor-immune landscape to circumvent immune destruction. Deletion of p53 promotes the recruitment and instruction of suppressive myeloid CD11b<sup>+</sup> cells, in part through increased expression of CXCR3/CCR2-associated chemokines and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), and attenuates the CD4<sup>+</sup> T helper 1 (Th1) and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell responses in vivo. p53-null tumors also show an accumulation of suppressive regulatory T (Treg) cells. Finally, we show that two key drivers of tumorigenesis, activation of KRAS and deletion of p53, cooperate to promote immune tolerance."	0
"32884148"	"Cellular and molecular architecture of the intestinal stem cell niche.Intestinal stem and progenitor cells replicate and differentiate in distinct compartments, influenced by Wnt, BMP, and other subepithelial cues. The cellular sources of these signals were long obscure because intestinal mesenchyme was insufficiently characterised. In this Review, we discuss how recent mRNA profiles of mouse and human intestinal submucosa, coupled with fine-resolution microscopy and gene and cell disruptions, reveal a coherent picture of an organised tissue carrying cells with distinct molecular properties and functions."	0
"31940480"	"Dual RNA-Seq of Mtb-Infected Macrophages In Vivo Reveals Ontologically Distinct Host-Pathogen Interactions.Dissecting the in vivo host-pathogen interplay is crucial to understanding the molecular mechanisms governing control or progression of intracellular infections. In this work, we explore the in vivo molecular dynamics of Mtb infection by performing dual RNA-seq on Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected, ontogenetically distinct macrophage lineages isolated directly from murine lungs. We first define an in vivo signature of 180 genes specifically upregulated by Mtb in mouse lung macrophages, then we uncover a divergent transcriptional response of the bacteria between alveolar macrophages that appear to sustain Mtb growth through increased access to iron and fatty acids and interstitial macrophages that restrict Mtb growth through iron sequestration and higher levels of nitric oxide. We use an enrichment protocol for bacterial transcripts, which enables us to probe Mtb physiology at the host cell level in an in vivo environment, with broader application in understanding the infection dynamics of intracellular pathogens in general."	0
"31914400"	"DEAD-Box Helicase 18 Counteracts PRC2 to Safeguard Ribosomal DNA in Pluripotency Regulation.Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) exhibit high levels of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) transcription and ribosome biogenesis. Here, we reveal an unexpected role for an essential DEAD-box helicase, DDX18, in antagonizing the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) to prevent deposition of the repressive H3K27me3 mark onto rDNA in pluripotent cells. DDX18 binds and sequesters PRC2 in the outer layer of the nucleolus and counteracts PRC2 complex formation in vivo and in vitro. DDX18 knockdown leads to increased occupancy of PRC2 and H3K27me3 at rDNA loci, accompanied by drastically decreased rRNA transcription and reduced ribosomal protein expression and translation. Auxin-induced rapid degradation of DDX18 enhances PRC2 binding at rDNA. The inhibition of PRC2 partially rescues the effects of DDX18 depletion on rRNA transcription and ESC self-renewal. These results demonstrate a critical role for DDX18 in safeguarding the chromatin and transcriptional integrity of rDNA by counteracting the epigenetic silencing machinery to promote pluripotency."	1
"32049019"	"Mitochondrial Oxidative Phosphorylation Regulates the Fate Decision between Pathogenic Th17 and Regulatory T Cells.Understanding metabolic pathways that regulate Th17 development is important to broaden therapeutic options for Th17-mediated autoimmunity. Here, we report a pivotal role of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) for lineage specification toward pathogenic Th17 differentiation. Th17 cells rapidly increase mitochondrial respiration during development, and this is necessary for metabolic reprogramming following T cell activation. Surprisingly, specific inhibition of mitochondrial ATP synthase ablates Th17 pathogenicity in a mouse model of autoimmunity by preventing Th17 pathogenic signature gene expression. Notably, cells activated under OXPHOS-inhibited Th17 conditions preferentially express Foxp3, rather than Th17 genes, and become suppressive Treg cells. Mechanistically, OXPHOS promotes the Th17 pioneer transcription factor, BATF, and facilitates T cell receptor (TCR) and mTOR signaling. Correspondingly, overexpression of BATF rescues Th17 development when ATP synthase activity is restricted. Together, our data reveal a regulatory role of mitochondrial OXPHOS in dictating the fate decision between Th17 and Treg cells by supporting early molecular events necessary for Th17 commitment."	0
"32690607"	"Inhibitors of a Na<sup>+</sup>-pumping NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase play multiple roles to block enzyme function.The Na<sup>+</sup>-pumping NADH-ubiquinone (UQ) oxidoreductase (Na<sup>+</sup>-NQR) is present in the respiratory chain of many pathogenic bacteria and is thought to be a promising antibiotic target. Whereas many details of Na<sup>+</sup>-NQR structure and function are known, the mechanisms of action of potent inhibitors is not well-understood; elucidating the mechanisms would not only advance drug design strategies but might also provide insights on a terminal electron transfer from riboflavin to UQ. To this end, we performed photoaffinity labeling experiments using photoreactive derivatives of two known inhibitors, aurachin and korormicin, on isolated <i>Vibrio cholerae</i> Na<sup>+</sup>-NQR. The inhibitors labeled the cytoplasmic surface domain of the NqrB subunit including a protruding N-terminal stretch, which may be critical to regulate the UQ reaction in the adjacent NqrA subunit. The labeling was blocked by short-chain UQs such as ubiquinone-2. The photolabile group (2-aryl-5-carboxytetrazole (ACT)) of these inhibitors reacts with nucleophilic amino acids, so we tested mutations of nucleophilic residues in the labeled region of NqrB, such as Asp<sup>49</sup> and Asp<sup>52</sup> (to Ala), and observed moderate decreases in labeling yields, suggesting that these residues are involved in the interaction with ACT. We conclude that the inhibitors interfere with the UQ reaction in two ways: the first is blocking structural rearrangements at the cytoplasmic interface between NqrA and NqrB, and the second is the direct obstruction of UQ binding at this interfacial area. Unusual competitive behavior between the photoreactive inhibitors and various competitors corroborates our previous proposition that there may be two inhibitor binding sites in Na<sup>+</sup>-NQR."	0
"32433965"	"Unbiased Identification of trans Regulators of ADAR and A-to-I RNA Editing.Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing is catalyzed by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) enzymes that deaminate adenosine to inosine. Although many RNA editing sites are known, few trans regulators have been identified. We perform BioID followed by mass spectrometry to identify trans regulators of ADAR1 and ADAR2 in HeLa and M17 neuroblastoma cells. We identify known and novel ADAR-interacting proteins. Using ENCODE data, we validate and characterize a subset of the novel interactors as global or site-specific RNA editing regulators. Our set of novel trans regulators includes all four members of the DZF-domain-containing family of proteins: ILF3, ILF2, STRBP, and ZFR. We show that these proteins interact with each ADAR and modulate RNA editing levels. We find ILF3 is a broadly influential negative regulator of editing. This work demonstrates the broad roles that RNA binding proteins play in regulating editing levels, and establishes DZF-domain-containing proteins as a group of highly influential RNA editing regulators."	1
"32353258"	"Replication Stress Induces ATR/CHK1-Dependent Nonrandom Segregation of Damaged Chromosomes.Nonrandom DNA segregation (NDS) is a mitotic event in which sister chromatids carrying the oldest DNA strands are inherited exclusively by one of the two daughter cells. Although this phenomenon has been observed across various organisms, the mechanism and physiological relevance of this event remain poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that DNA replication stress can trigger NDS in human cells. This biased inheritance of old template DNA is associated with the asymmetric DNA damage response (DDR), which derives at least in part from telomeric DNA. Mechanistically, we reveal that the ATR/CHK1 signaling pathway plays an essential role in mediating NDS. We show that this biased segregation process leads to cell-cycle arrest and cell death in damaged daughter cells inheriting newly replicated DNA. These data therefore identify a key role for NDS in the maintenance of genomic integrity within cancer cell populations undergoing replication stress due to oncogene activation."	0
"32877679"	"AMPAR-Dependent Synaptic Plasticity Initiates Cortical Remapping and Adaptive Behaviors during Sensory Experience.Cortical plasticity improves behaviors and helps recover lost functions after injury. However, the underlying synaptic mechanisms remain unclear. In mice, we show that trimming all but one whisker enhances sensory responses from the spared whisker in the barrel cortex and occludes whisker-mediated synaptic potentiation (w-Pot) in vivo. In addition, whisker-dependent behaviors that are initially impaired by single-whisker experience (SWE) rapidly recover when associated cortical regions remap. Cross-linking the surface GluA2 subunit of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) suppresses the expression of w-Pot, presumably by blocking AMPAR surface diffusion, in mice with all whiskers intact, indicating that synaptic potentiation in vivo requires AMPAR trafficking. We use this approach to demonstrate that w-Pot is required for SWE-mediated strengthening of synaptic inputs and initiates the recovery of previously learned skills during the early phases of SWE. Taken together, our data reveal that w-Pot mediates cortical remapping and behavioral improvement upon partial sensory deafferentation."	0
"31995747"	"Human pDCs Are Superior to cDC2s in Attracting Cytolytic Lymphocytes in Melanoma Patients Receiving DC Vaccination.Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) and type 2 conventional dendritic cells (cDC2s) are currently under evaluation for use in cancer vaccines. Although both DC subsets can activate adaptive and innate lymphocytes, their capacity to recruit such cells is rarely considered. Here, we show that pDCs and cDC2s display a striking difference in chemokine secretion, which correlates with the recruitment of distinct types of immune effector cells. Activated pDCs express high levels of CXCR3 ligands and attract more CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, CD56<sup>+</sup> T cells, and γδ T cells in vitro, compared to cDC2s. Skin from melanoma patients shows an influx of immune effector cells following intradermal vaccination with pDCs or cDC2s, with pDCs inducing the strongest influx of lymphocytes known to possess cytolytic activity. These findings suggest that combining both DC subsets could unite the preferred chemoattractive properties of pDCs with the superior T cell priming properties of cDC2s to ultimately enhance vaccine efficacy."	0
"32460025"	"The Drosophila Ortholog of Mammalian Transcription Factor Sox9 Regulates Intestinal Homeostasis and Regeneration at an Appropriate Level.Balanced stem cell self-renewal and differentiation is essential for maintaining tissue homeostasis, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we identified the transcription factor SRY-related HMG-box (Sox) 100B, which is orthologous to mammalian Sox8/9/10, as a common target and central mediator of the EGFR/Ras and JAK/STAT signaling pathways that coordinates intestinal stem cell (ISC) proliferation and differentiation during both normal epithelial homeostasis and stress-induced intestinal repair in Drosophila. The two stress-responsive pathways directly regulate Sox100B transcription via two separate enhancers. Interestingly, an appropriate level of Sox100B is critical for its function, as its depletion inhibits ISC proliferation via cell cycle arrest, while its overexpression also inhibits ISC proliferation by directly suppressing EGFR expression and additionally promotes ISC differentiation by activating a differentiation-promoting regulatory circuitry composed of Sox100B, Sox21a, and Pdm1. Thus, our study reveals a Sox family transcription factor that functions as a stress-responsive signaling nexus that ultimately controls tissue homeostasis and regeneration."	1
"32753672"	"Mammalian Atg8 proteins and the autophagy factor IRGM control mTOR and TFEB at a regulatory node critical for responses to pathogens.Autophagy is a homeostatic process with multiple functions in mammalian cells. Here, we show that mammalian Atg8 proteins (mAtg8s) and the autophagy regulator IRGM control TFEB, a transcriptional activator of the lysosomal system. IRGM directly interacted with TFEB and promoted the nuclear translocation of TFEB. An mAtg8 partner of IRGM, GABARAP, interacted with TFEB. Deletion of all mAtg8s or GABARAPs affected the global transcriptional response to starvation and downregulated subsets of TFEB targets. IRGM and GABARAPs countered the action of mTOR as a negative regulator of TFEB. This was suppressed by constitutively active RagB, an activator of mTOR. Infection of macrophages with the membrane-permeabilizing microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis or infection of target cells by HIV elicited TFEB activation in an IRGM-dependent manner. Thus, IRGM and its interactors mAtg8s close a loop between the autophagosomal pathway and the control of lysosomal biogenesis by TFEB, thus ensuring coordinated activation of the two systems that eventually merge during autophagy."	1
"32160543"	"MYC Dysregulates Mitosis, Revealing Cancer Vulnerabilities.Tumors that overexpress the MYC oncogene are frequently aneuploid, a state associated with highly aggressive cancers and tumor evolution. However, how MYC causes aneuploidy is not well understood. Here, we show that MYC overexpression induces mitotic spindle assembly defects and chromosomal instability (CIN) through effects on microtubule nucleation and organization. Attenuating MYC expression reverses mitotic defects, even in established tumor cell lines, indicating an ongoing role for MYC in CIN. MYC reprograms mitotic gene expression, and we identify TPX2 to be permissive for spindle assembly in MYC-high cells. TPX2 depletion blocks mitotic progression, induces cell death, and prevents tumor growth. Further elevating TPX2 expression reduces mitotic defects in MYC-high cells. MYC and TPX2 expression may be useful biomarkers to stratify patients for anti-mitotic therapies. Our studies implicate MYC as a regulator of mitosis and suggest that blocking MYC activity can attenuate the emergence of CIN and tumor evolution."	0
"31677974"	"Control of RNA Pol II Speed by PNUTS-PP1 and Spt5 Dephosphorylation Facilitates Termination by a ""Sitting Duck Torpedo"" Mechanism.Control of transcription speed, which influences many co-transcriptional processes, is poorly understood. We report that PNUTS-PP1 phosphatase is a negative regulator of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) elongation rate. The PNUTS W401A mutation, which disrupts PP1 binding, causes genome-wide acceleration of transcription associated with hyper-phosphorylation of the Spt5 elongation factor. Immediately downstream of poly(A) sites, Pol II decelerates from >2 kb/min to <1 kb/min, which correlates with Spt5 dephosphorylation. Pol II deceleration and Spt5 dephosphorylation require poly(A) site recognition and the PNUTS-PP1 complex, which is in turn necessary for transcription termination. These results lead to a model for termination, the ""sitting duck torpedo"" mechanism, where poly(A) site-dependent deceleration caused by PNUTS-PP1 and Spt5 dephosphorylation is required to convert Pol II into a viable target for the Xrn2 terminator exonuclease. Spt5 and its bacterial homolog NusG therefore have related functions controlling kinetic competition between RNA polymerases and the termination factors that pursue them."	1
"32580946"	"Muscarinic-dependent phosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor by protein kinase G is mediated by PI3K-AKT-nNOS signaling.Post-translational modifications of proteins involved in calcium handling in myocytes, such as the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2), critically regulate cardiac contractility. Recent studies have suggested that phosphorylation of RyR2 by protein kinase G (PKG) might contribute to the cardioprotective effects of cholinergic stimulation. However, the specific mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. Here, using murine ventricular myocytes, immunoblotting, proximity ligation as-says, and nitric oxide imaging, we report that phosphorylation of Ser-2808 in RyR2 induced by the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol is mediated by a signaling axis comprising phosphoinositide 3-phosphate kinase, Akt Ser/Thr kinase, nitric oxide synthase 1, nitric oxide, soluble guanylate cyclase, cyclic GMP (cGMP), and PKG. We found that this signaling pathway is compartmentalized in myocytes, as it was distinct from atrial natriuretic peptide receptor-cGMP-PKG-RyR2 Ser-2808 signaling and independent of muscarinic-induced phosphorylation of Ser-239 in vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein. These results provide detailed insights into muscarinic-induced PKG signaling and the mediators that regulate cardiac RyR2 phosphorylation critical for cardiovascular function."	1
"31023583"	"ER and Nutrient Stress Promote Assembly of Respiratory Chain Supercomplexes through the PERK-eIF2α Axis.Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response are energetically challenging under nutrient stress conditions. However, the regulatory mechanisms that control the energetic demand under nutrient and ER stress are largely unknown. Here we show that ER stress and glucose deprivation stimulate mitochondrial bioenergetics and formation of respiratory supercomplexes (SCs) through protein kinase R-like ER kinase (PERK). Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of PERK suppresses nutrient and ER stress-mediated increases in SC levels and reduces oxidative phosphorylation-dependent ATP production. Conversely, PERK activation augments respiratory SCs. The PERK-eIF2α-ATF4 axis increases supercomplex assembly factor 1 (SCAF1 or COX7A2L), promoting SCs and enhanced mitochondrial respiration. PERK activation is sufficient to rescue bioenergetic defects caused by complex I missense mutations derived from mitochondrial disease patients. These studies have identified an energetic communication between ER and mitochondria, with implications in cell survival and diseases associated with mitochondrial failures."	1
"32243832"	"How RNA-Binding Proteins Interact with RNA: Molecules and Mechanisms.RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) comprise a large class of over 2,000 proteins that interact with transcripts in all manner of RNA-driven processes. The structures and mechanisms that RBPs use to bind and regulate RNA are incredibly diverse. In this review, we take a look at the components of protein-RNA interaction, from the molecular level to multi-component interaction. We first summarize what is known about protein-RNA molecular interactions based on analyses of solved structures. We additionally describe software currently available for predicting protein-RNA interaction and other resources useful for the study of RBPs. We then review the structure and function of seventeen known RNA-binding domains and analyze the hydrogen bonds adopted by protein-RNA structures on a domain-by-domain basis. We conclude with a summary of the higher-level mechanisms that regulate protein-RNA interactions."	0
"32697984"	"RSK2 Maintains Adult Estrogen Homeostasis by Inhibiting ERK1/2-Mediated Degradation of Estrogen Receptor Alpha.In response to estrogens, estrogen receptor alpha (ERα), a critical regulator of homeostasis, is degraded through the 26S proteasome. However, despite the continued presence of estrogen before menopause, ERα protein levels are maintained. We discovered that ERK1/2-RSK2 activity oscillates during the estrous cycle. In response to high estrogen levels, ERK1/2 is activated and phosphorylates ERα to drive ERα degradation and estrogen-responsive gene expression. Reduction of estrogen levels results in ERK1/2 deactivation. RSK2 maintains redox homeostasis, which prevents sustained ERK1/2 activation. In juveniles, ERK1/2-RSK2 activity is not required. Mammary gland regeneration demonstrates that ERK1/2-RSK2 regulation of ERα is intrinsic to the epithelium. Reduced RSK2 and enrichment in an estrogen-regulated gene signature occur in individuals taking oral contraceptives. RSK2 loss enhances DNA damage, which may account for the elevated breast cancer risk with the use of exogenous estrogens. These findings implicate RSK2 as a critical component for the preservation of estrogen homeostasis."	1
"32579914"	"NeuroD1 Dictates Tumor Cell Differentiation in Medulloblastoma.Tumor cells are characterized by unlimited proliferation and perturbed differentiation. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we demonstrate that tumor cells in medulloblastoma (MB) retain their capacity to differentiate in a similar way as their normal originating cells, cerebellar granule neuron precursors. Once they differentiate, MB cells permanently lose their proliferative capacity and tumorigenic potential. Differentiated MB cells highly express NeuroD1, a helix-loop-helix transcription factor, and forced expression of NeuroD1 promotes the differentiation of MB cells. The expression of NeuroD1 in bulk MB cells is repressed by trimethylation of histone 3 lysine-27 (H3K27me3). Inhibition of the histone lysine methyltransferase EZH2 prevents H3K27 trimethylation, resulting in increased NeuroD1 expression and enhanced differentiation in MB cells, which consequently reduces tumor growth. These studies reveal the mechanisms underlying MB cell differentiation and provide rationales to treat MB (potentially other malignancies) by stimulating tumor cell differentiation."	1
"31995766"	"Circuit Integration Initiation of New Hippocampal Neurons in the Adult Brain.In the adult brain, new dentate granule cells integrate into neural circuits and participate in hippocampal functioning. However, when and how they initiate this integration remain poorly understood. Using retroviral and live-imaging methods, we find that new neurons undergo neurite remodeling for competitive horizontal-to-radial repositioning in the dentate gyrus prior to circuit integration. Gene expression profiling, lipidomics analysis, and molecular interrogation of new neurons during this period reveal a rapid activation of sphingolipid signaling mediated by sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1. Genetic manipulation of this G protein-coupled receptor reveals its requirement for successful repositioning of new neurons. This receptor is also activated by hippocampus-engaged behaviors, which enhances repositioning efficiency. These findings reveal that activity-dependent sphingolipid signaling regulates cellular repositioning of new dentate granule cells. The competitive horizontal-to-radial repositioning of new neurons may provide a gating strategy in the adult brain to limit the integration of new neurons into pre-existing circuits."	0
"32755576"	"Stromal Cell-Contact Dependent PI3K and APRIL Induced NF-κB Signaling Prevent Mitochondrial- and ER Stress Induced Death of Memory Plasma Cells.The persistence of long-lived memory plasma cells in the bone marrow depends on survival factors available in the bone marrow, which are provided in niches organized by stromal cells. Using an ex vivo system in which we supply the known survival signals, direct cell contact to stromal cells, and the soluble cytokine a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), we have elucidated the critical signaling pathways required for the survival of long-lived plasma cells. Integrin-mediated contact of bone marrow plasma cells with stromal cells activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway, leading to critical inactivation of Forkhead-Box-Protein O1/3 (FoxO1/3) and preventing the activation of mitochondrial stress-associated effector caspases 3 and 7. Accordingly, inhibition of PI3K signaling in vivo ablates bone marrow plasma cells. APRIL signaling, by the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway, blocks activation of the endoplasmic-reticulum-stress-associated initiator caspase 12. Thus, stromal-cell-contact-induced PI3K and APRIL-induced NF-κB signaling provide the necessary and complementary signals to maintain bone marrow memory plasma cells."	1
"32130890"	"Regulated Proteolysis of MutSγ Controls Meiotic Crossing Over.Crossover recombination is essential for accurate chromosome segregation during meiosis. The MutSγ complex, Msh4-Msh5, facilitates crossing over by binding and stabilizing nascent recombination intermediates. We show that these activities are governed by regulated proteolysis. MutSγ is initially inactive for crossing over due to an N-terminal degron on Msh4 that renders it unstable by directly targeting proteasomal degradation. Activation of MutSγ requires the Dbf4-dependent kinase Cdc7 (DDK), which directly phosphorylates and thereby neutralizes the Msh4 degron. Genetic requirements for Msh4 phosphorylation indicate that DDK targets MutSγ only after it has bound to nascent joint molecules (JMs) in the context of synapsing chromosomes. Overexpression studies confirm that the steady-state level of Msh4, not phosphorylation per se, is the critical determinant for crossing over. At the DNA level, Msh4 phosphorylation enables the formation and crossover-biased resolution of double-Holliday Junction intermediates. Our study establishes regulated protein degradation as a fundamental mechanism underlying meiotic crossing over."	1
"32023483"	"Genome-wide Screening Identifies SFMBT1 as an Oncogenic Driver in Cancer with VHL Loss.von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) is a critical tumor suppressor in clear cell renal cell carcinomas (ccRCCs). It is important to identify additional therapeutic targets in ccRCC downstream of VHL loss besides hypoxia-inducible factor 2α (HIF2α). By performing a genome-wide screen, we identified Scm-like with four malignant brain tumor domains 1 (SFMBT1) as a candidate pVHL target. SFMBT1 was considered to be a transcriptional repressor but its role in cancer remains unclear. ccRCC patients with VHL loss-of-function mutations displayed elevated SFMBT1 protein levels. SFMBT1 hydroxylation on Proline residue 651 by EglN1 mediated its ubiquitination and degradation governed by pVHL. Depletion of SFMBT1 abolished ccRCC cell proliferation in vitro and inhibited orthotopic tumor growth in vivo. Integrated analyses of ChIP-seq, RNA-seq, and patient prognosis identified sphingosine kinase 1 (SPHK1) as a key SFMBT1 target gene contributing to its oncogenic phenotype. Therefore, the pVHL-SFMBT1-SPHK1 axis serves as a potential therapeutic avenue for ccRCC."	1
"30979586"	"ULK1 and ULK2 Regulate Stress Granule Disassembly Through Phosphorylation and Activation of VCP/p97.Disturbances in autophagy and stress granule dynamics have been implicated as potential mechanisms underlying inclusion body myopathy (IBM) and related disorders. Yet the roles of core autophagy proteins in IBM and stress granule dynamics remain poorly characterized. Here, we demonstrate that disrupted expression of the core autophagy proteins ULK1 and ULK2 in mice causes a vacuolar myopathy with ubiquitin and TDP-43-positive inclusions; this myopathy is similar to that caused by VCP/p97 mutations, the most common cause of familial IBM. Mechanistically, we show that ULK1/2 localize to stress granules and phosphorylate VCP, thereby increasing VCP's activity and ability to disassemble stress granules. These data suggest that VCP dysregulation and defective stress granule disassembly contribute to IBM-like disease in Ulk1/2-deficient mice. In addition, stress granule disassembly is accelerated by an ULK1/2 agonist, suggesting ULK1/2 as targets for exploiting the higher-order regulation of stress granules for therapeutic intervention of IBM and related disorders."	1
"31126739"	"Transcription Restart Establishes Chromatin Accessibility after DNA Replication.DNA replication is highly disruptive to chromatin, leading to eviction of nucleosomes, RNA polymerase, and regulatory factors. When and how transcription resumes on DNA following DNA replication is unknown. Here we develop a replication-coupled assay for transposase-accessible chromatin (repli-ATAC-seq) to investigate active chromatin restoration post-replication in mouse embryonic stem cells. We find that nascent chromatin is inaccessible and transcriptionally silenced, with accessibility and RNA polymerase occupancy re-appearing within 30 minutes. Chromatin accessibility restores differentially genome wide, with super enhancers regaining transcription factor occupancy faster than other genomic features. We also identify opportunistic and transiently accessible chromatin within gene bodies after replication. Systematic inhibition of transcription shows that transcription restart is required to re-establish active chromatin states genome wide and resolve opportunistic binding events resulting from DNA replication. Collectively, this establishes a central role for transcription in overcoming the genome-wide chromatin inaccessibility imposed by DNA replication every cell division."	0
"32023484"	"Partitioning of MLX-Family Transcription Factors to Lipid Droplets Regulates Metabolic Gene Expression.Lipid droplets (LDs) store lipids for energy and are central to cellular lipid homeostasis. The mechanisms coordinating lipid storage in LDs with cellular metabolism are unclear but relevant to obesity-related diseases. Here we utilized genome-wide screening to identify genes that modulate lipid storage in macrophages, a cell type involved in metabolic diseases. Among ∼550 identified screen hits is MLX, a basic helix-loop-helix leucine-zipper transcription factor that regulates metabolic processes. We show that MLX and glucose-sensing family members MLXIP/MondoA and MLXIPL/ChREBP bind LDs via C-terminal amphipathic helices. When LDs accumulate in cells, these transcription factors bind to LDs, reducing their availability for transcriptional activity and attenuating the response to glucose. Conversely, the absence of LDs results in hyperactivation of MLX target genes. Our findings uncover a paradigm for a lipid storage response in which binding of MLX transcription factors to LD surfaces adjusts the expression of metabolic genes to lipid storage levels."	0
"32460012"	"TGF-β-Induced Phosphorylation of Usp9X Stabilizes Ankyrin-G and Regulates Dendritic Spine Development and Maintenance.Signaling by the cytokine transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) has been implicated in a multitude of biological functions; however, TGF-β signaling, particularly in the CNS, remains largely unexplored. ANK3 variants (encoding ankyrin-G) are associated with bipolar disorder, intellectual disability, and autism spectrum disorder, while mutations in USP9X, which encodes a deubiquitinase, are associated with X-linked intellectual disability and autism in humans. Here, we show that TGF-β signaling promotes Usp9X phosphorylation, which enhances its interaction with ankyrin-G and stabilizes ankyrin-G in spines, leading to spine enlargement. Using in situ proximity ligation combined with structured illumination superresolution microscopy, we characterize the postsynaptic spatial organization of phosphorylation-dependent regulation of Usp9X/ankyrin-G interactions in dendrites and its quantitative relationship with spine morphology and number. These data reveal a cytokine-mediated mechanism regulating protein stability in spines and suggest a role for deubiquitination and TGF-β signaling in neurodevelopmental disorder pathogenesis and treatment."	1
"32651234"	"The chaperone Hsp70 is a BH3 receptor activated by the pro-apoptotic Bim to stabilize anti-apoptotic clients.The chaperone heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is crucial for avoiding protein misfolding under stress, but is also up-regulated in many kinds of cancers, where its ability to buffer cellular stress prevents apoptosis. Previous research has suggested Hsp70 interacts with pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins, including Bim and Bax. However, a definitive demonstration of this interaction awaits, and insights into the structural basis and molecular mechanism remain unclear. Earlier studies have identified a Bcl-2 homology 3 (BH3) domain present in Bcl-2 family members that engages receptors to stimulate apoptosis. We now show that Hsp70 physically interacts with pro-apoptotic multidomain and BH3-only proteins via a BH3 domain, thereby serving as a novel BH3 receptor, using <i>in vitro</i> fluorescent polarization (FP), isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), and cell-based co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) experiments, <sup>1</sup>H-<sup>15</sup>N-transverse relaxation optimized spectroscopy (TROSY-HSQC), trypsin proteolysis, ATPase activity, and denatured rhodanese aggregation measurements further demonstrated that BimBH3 binds to a novel allosteric site in the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD) of Hsp70, by which Bim acts as a positive co-chaperone to promote the ATPase activity and chaperone functions. A dual role of Hsp70's anti-apoptotic function was revealed that when it keeps Bim in check to inhibit apoptosis, it simultaneously stabilizes oncogenic clients including AKT and Raf-1 with the aid of Bim. Two faces of Bim in cell fate regulation were revealed that in opposite to its well-established pro-apoptotic activator role, Bim could help the folding of oncogenic proteins."	1
"32675282"	"PE5-PPE4-EspG<sub>3</sub> heterotrimer structure from mycobacterial ESX-3 secretion system gives insight into cognate substrate recognition by ESX systems.<i>Mycobacterium tuberculosis</i> has evolved numerous type VII secretion (ESX) systems to secrete multiple factors important for both growth and virulence across their cell envelope. ESX-1, ESX-3, and ESX-5 systems have been shown to each secrete a distinct set of substrates, including PE and PPE families of proteins, named for conserved Pro-Glu and Pro-Pro-Glu motifs in their N termini. Proper secretion of the PE-PPE proteins requires the presence of EspG, with each system encoding its own unique copy. There is no cross-talk between any of the ESX systems, and how each EspG recognizes its subset of PE-PPE proteins is currently unknown. The only current structural characterization of PE-PPE-EspG heterotrimers is from the ESX-5 system. Here we present the crystal structure of the PE5<sub>mt</sub>-PPE4<sub>mt</sub>-EspG<sub>3mm</sub> heterotrimer from the ESX-3 system. Our heterotrimer reveals that EspG<sub>3mm</sub> interacts exclusively with PPE4<sub>mt</sub> in a similar manner to EspG<sub>5</sub>, shielding the hydrophobic tip of PPE4<sub>mt</sub> from solvent. The C-terminal helical domain of EspG<sub>3mm</sub> is dynamic, alternating between ""open"" and ""closed"" forms, and this movement is likely functionally relevant in the unloading of PE-PPE heterodimers at the secretion machinery. In contrast to the previously solved ESX-5 heterotrimers, the PE-PPE heterodimer of our ESX-3 heterotrimer is interacting with its chaperone at a drastically different angle and presents different faces of the PPE protein to the chaperone. We conclude that the PPE-EspG interface from each ESX system has a unique shape complementarity that allows each EspG to discriminate among noncognate PE-PPE pairs."	0
"32719553"	"Cell stretching is amplified by active actin remodelling to deform and recruit proteins in mechanosensitive structures.Detection and conversion of mechanical forces into biochemical signals controls cell functions during physiological and pathological processes. Mechanosensing is based on protein deformations and reorganizations, yet the molecular mechanisms are still unclear. Using a cell-stretching device compatible with super-resolution microscopy and single-protein tracking, we explored the nanoscale deformations and reorganizations of individual proteins inside mechanosensitive structures. We achieved super-resolution microscopy after live stretching on intermediate filaments, microtubules and integrin adhesions. Simultaneous single-protein tracking and stretching showed that while integrins followed the elastic deformation of the substrate, actin filaments and talin also displayed lagged and transient inelastic responses associated with active acto-myosin remodelling and talin deformations. Capturing acute reorganizations of single molecules during stretching showed that force-dependent vinculin recruitment is delayed and depends on the maturation of integrin adhesions. Thus, cells respond to external forces by amplifying transiently and locally cytoskeleton displacements, enabling protein deformation and recruitment in mechanosensitive structures."	0
"32348751"	"Pbrm1 Steers Mesenchymal Stromal Cell Osteolineage Differentiation by Integrating PBAF-Dependent Chromatin Remodeling and BMP/TGF-β Signaling.Bone morphogenic protein (BMP)/transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling determines mesenchymal-stromal-cell (MSC) osteolineage commitment and tissue identity. However, molecular integration of developmental signaling with MSC-intrinsic chromatin regulation remains incompletely understood. SWI/SNF-(BAF) is an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler implicated in multi-cellular development. We show that BMPs and long-term osteogenic signals in MSCs selectively induce expression of polybromo BAF (PBAF) components Pbrm1, Arid2, and Brd7. Loss of Pbrm1/Arid2/Brd7 profoundly impairs osteolineage gene expression and osteogenesis without compromising adipogenesis. Pbrm1 loss attenuates MSC in vivo ossification. Mechanistically, Pbrm1/PBAF deficiency impairs Smad1/5/8 activation through locus-specific epi-genomic remodeling, involving Pbrm1 bromodomains, along with transcriptional downregulation of Bmpr/TgfβrII affecting BMP-early-responsive gene expression. Gain of function of BmprIβ, TgfβrII in PBAF-deficient MSCs partly restores Smad1/5/8 activation and osteogenesis. Pbrm1 loss further affects hematopoietic stem and progenitor activity through non-cell-autonomous regulation of microenvironment and niche-factor expression. Together, these findings reveal a link illustrating epi-genomic feedforward control of BMP/TGF-β signaling to transcriptional and cellular plasticity in the mesenchymal microenvironment and account for stromal-SWI/SNF in hematopoiesis."	1
"32209466"	"An mRNA-mRNA Interaction Couples Expression of a Virulence Factor and Its Chaperone in Listeria monocytogenes.Bacterial pathogens often employ RNA regulatory elements located in the 5' untranslated regions (UTRs) to control gene expression. Using a comparative structural analysis, we examine the structure of 5' UTRs at a global scale in the pathogenic bacterium Listeria monocytogenes under different conditions. In addition to discovering an RNA thermoswitch and detecting simultaneous interaction of ribosomes and small RNAs with mRNA, we identify structural changes in the 5' UTR of an mRNA encoding the post-translocation chaperone PrsA2 during infection conditions. We demonstrate that the 5' UTR of the prsA2 mRNA base pairs with the 3' UTR of the full-length hly mRNA encoding listeriolysin O, thus preventing RNase J1-mediated degradation of the prsA2 transcript. Mutants lacking the hly-prsA2 interaction exhibit reduced virulence properties. This work highlights an additional level of RNA regulation, where the mRNA encoding a chaperone is stabilized by the mRNA encoding its substrate."	0
"31968247"	"Constitutive Interferon Attenuates RIPK1/3-Mediated Cytokine Translation.Receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1) and 3 (RIPK3) are well known for their capacity to drive necroptosis via mixed-lineage kinase-like domain (MLKL). Recently, RIPK1/3 kinase activity has been shown to drive inflammation via activation of MAPK signaling. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying this kinase-dependent cytokine production remain poorly understood. In the present study, we establish that the kinase activity of RIPK1/3 regulates cytokine translation in mouse and human macrophages. Furthermore, we show that this inflammatory response is downregulated by type I interferon (IFN) signaling, independent of type I IFN-promoted cell death. Specifically, low-level constitutive IFN signaling attenuates RIPK-driven activation of cap-dependent translation initiation pathway components AKT, mTORC1, 4E-BP and eIF4E, while promoting RIPK-dependent cell death. Altogether, these data characterize constitutive IFN signaling as a regulator of RIPK-dependent inflammation and establish cap-dependent translation as a crucial checkpoint in the regulation of cytokine production."	1
"32640239"	"Regulatory T Cells Play a Role in a Subset of Idiopathic Preterm Labor/Birth and Adverse Neonatal Outcomes.Regulatory T cells (Tregs) have been exhaustively investigated during early pregnancy; however, their role later in gestation is poorly understood. Herein, we report that functional Tregs are reduced at the maternal-fetal interface in a subset of women with idiopathic preterm labor/birth, which is accompanied by a concomitant increase in Tc17 cells. In mice, depletion of functional Tregs during late gestation induces preterm birth and adverse neonatal outcomes, which are rescued by the adoptive transfer of such cells. Treg depletion does not alter obstetrical parameters in the mother, yet it increases susceptibility to endotoxin-induced preterm birth. The mechanisms whereby depletion of Tregs induces adverse perinatal outcomes involve tissue-specific immune responses and mild systemic maternal inflammation, together with dysregulation of developmental and cellular processes in the placenta, in the absence of intra-amniotic inflammation. These findings provide mechanistic evidence supporting a role for Tregs in the pathophysiology of idiopathic preterm labor/birth and adverse neonatal outcomes."	0
"32375050"	"LGR4, Not LGR5, Enhances hPSC Hematopoiesis by Facilitating Mesoderm Induction via TGF-Beta Signaling Activation.Attempts to generate functional blood cells from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) remain largely unsuccessful, mainly due to the lack of understanding of the regulatory network of human hematopoiesis. In this study, we identified leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor 4 (LGR4) as an essential regulator of early hematopoietic differentiation of hPSCs. The deletion of LGR4 severely impairs mesoderm development, thereby limiting hematopoietic differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. In contrast, LGR5 is dispensable for hPSC hematopoiesis. The four R-spondin proteins show differential activities and dependencies on LGR4 in hematopoietic differentiation. The deletion of LGR4 almost entirely abolishes the enhancement induced by R-spondin1 and R-spondin3, but not R-spondin2. In addition, ZNRF3 is required for the response of R-spondin1-R-spondin3. At the mechanistic level, LGR4 regulates transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling to control hematopoietic differentiation. Together, our results reveal vital roles of LGR4 in hematopoietic development and uncover distinct functions and underlying mechanisms for R-spondins."	1
"31519521"	"SUMO-Chain-Regulated Proteasomal Degradation Timing Exemplified in DNA Replication Initiation.Similar to ubiquitin, SUMO forms chains, but the identity of SUMO-chain-modified factors and the purpose of this modification remain largely unknown. Here, we identify the budding yeast SUMO protease Ulp2, able to disassemble SUMO chains, as a DDK interactor enriched at replication origins that promotes DNA replication initiation. Replication-engaged DDK is SUMOylated on chromatin, becoming a degradation-prone substrate when Ulp2 no longer protects it against SUMO chain assembly. Specifically, SUMO chains channel DDK for SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase Slx5/Slx8-mediated and Cdc48 segregase-assisted proteasomal degradation. Importantly, the SUMOylation-defective ddk-KR mutant rescues inefficient replication onset and MCM activation in cells lacking Ulp2, suggesting that SUMO chains time DDK degradation. Using two unbiased proteomic approaches, we further identify subunits of the MCM helicase and other factors as SUMO-chain-modified degradation-prone substrates of Ulp2 and Slx5/Slx8. We thus propose SUMO-chain/Ulp2-protease-regulated proteasomal degradation as a mechanism that times the availability of functionally engaged SUMO-modified protein pools during replication and beyond."	1
"32268103"	"Shank2 Binds to aPKC and Controls Tight Junction Formation with Rap1 Signaling during Establishment of Epithelial Cell Polarity.Epithelial cells establish apicobasal polarity by forming tight junctions (TJs) at the apical-lateral boundary, which play fundamental roles in physiological functions. An evolutionarily conserved atypical protein kinase C (aPKC)-partitioning defective (PAR) complex functions as a platform for TJ assembly during cell polarity establishment. However, how this complex converts the spatial cues into a subsequent active unit is unclear. Here, we identify an epithelial isoform of Shank2 as a mediator of the aPKC-PAR complex. Shank2 binds to and colocalizes with aPKC at apical junctional regions of polarized epithelial cells. Shank2 knockdown results in defects in TJ formation. Mechanistically, we find that the N-terminal SPN domain is required for the junctional localization of Shank2 and binds to the active form of Rap1 small GTPase, which is involved in TJ formation. Our findings suggest that a close physical and functional relationship between aPKC and Shank2-active Rap1 signaling serves as the platform for TJ assembly to regulate epithelial cell polarity."	1
"31543423"	"Transient Hysteresis in CDK4/6 Activity Underlies Passage of the Restriction Point in G1.Cells escape the need for mitogens at a restriction point several hours before entering S phase. The restriction point has been proposed to result from CDK4/6 initiating partial Rb phosphorylation to trigger a bistable switch whereby cyclin E-CDK2 and Rb mutually reinforce each other to induce Rb hyperphosphorylation. Here, using single-cell analysis, we unexpectedly found that cyclin E/A-CDK activity can only maintain Rb hyperphosphorylation starting at the onset of S phase and that CDK4/6 activity, but not cyclin E/A-CDK activity, is required to hyperphosphorylate Rb throughout G1 phase. Mitogen removal in G1 results in a gradual loss of CDK4/6 activity with a high likelihood of cells sustaining Rb hyperphosphorylation until S phase, at which point cyclin E/A-CDK activity takes over. Thus, it is short-term memory, or transient hysteresis, in CDK4/6 activity following mitogen removal that sustains Rb hyperphosphorylation, demonstrating a probabilistic rather than an irreversible molecular mechanism underlying the restriction point."	1
"31940496"	"Tissue-Resident PDGFRα<sup>+</sup> Progenitor Cells Contribute to Fibrosis versus Healing in a Context- and Spatiotemporally Dependent Manner.PDGFRα<sup>+</sup> mesenchymal progenitor cells are associated with pathological fibro-adipogenic processes. Conversely, a beneficial role for these cells during homeostasis or in response to revascularization and regeneration stimuli is suggested, but remains to be defined. We studied the molecular profile and function of PDGFRα<sup>+</sup> cells in order to understand the mechanisms underlying their role in fibrosis versus regeneration. We show that PDGFRα<sup>+</sup> cells are essential for tissue revascularization and restructuring through injury-stimulated remodeling of stromal and vascular components, context-dependent clonal expansion, and ultimate removal of pro-fibrotic PDGFRα<sup>+</sup>-derived cells. Tissue ischemia modulates the PDGFRα<sup>+</sup> phenotype toward cells capable of remodeling the extracellular matrix and inducing cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion, likely favoring tissue repair. Conversely, pathological healing occurs if PDGFRα<sup>+</sup>-derived cells persist as terminally differentiated mesenchymal cells. These studies support a context-dependent ""yin-yang"" biology of tissue-resident mesenchymal progenitor cells, which possess an innate ability to limit injury expansion while also promoting fibrosis in an unfavorable environment."	0
"32820036"	"Functional loss of a noncanonical BCOR-PRC1.1 complex accelerates SHH-driven medulloblastoma formation.Medulloblastoma is a malignant childhood brain tumor arising from the developing cerebellum. In Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) subgroup medulloblastoma, aberrant activation of SHH signaling causes increased proliferation of granule neuron progenitors (GNPs), and predisposes these cells to tumorigenesis. A second, cooperating genetic hit is often required to push these hyperplastic cells to malignancy and confer mutation-specific characteristics associated with oncogenic signaling. Somatic loss-of-function mutations of the transcriptional corepressor <i>BCOR</i> are recurrent and enriched in SHH medulloblastoma. To investigate <i>BCOR</i> as a putative tumor suppressor, we used a genetically engineered mouse model to delete exons 9/10 of <i>Bcor</i> (<i>Bcor</i><sup> in GNPs during development. This mutation leads to reduced expression of C-terminally truncated BCOR (BCOR<sup>ΔE9-10</sup>). While <i>Bcor alone did not promote tumorigenesis or affect GNP differentiation, <i>Bcor combined with loss of the SHH receptor gene <i>Ptch1</i> resulted in fully penetrant medulloblastomas. In <i>Ptch1</i><sup> Bcor tumors, the growth factor gene <i>Igf2</i> was aberrantly up-regulated, and ectopic <i>Igf2</i> overexpression was sufficient to drive tumorigenesis in <i>Ptch1</i><sup>+/-</sup> GNPs. BCOR directly regulates <i>Igf2</i>, likely through the PRC1.1 complex; the repressive histone mark H2AK119Ub is decreased at the <i>Igf2</i> promoter in <i>Ptch1</i><sup>Bcor</i><sup> tumors. Overall, our data suggests that BCOR-PRC1.1 disruption leads to <i>Igf2</i> overexpression, which transforms preneoplastic cells to malignant tumors."	0
"30846317"	"CHP1 Regulates Compartmentalized Glycerolipid Synthesis by Activating GPAT4.Cells require a constant supply of fatty acids to survive and proliferate. Fatty acids incorporate into membrane and storage glycerolipids through a series of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) enzymes, but how these enzymes are regulated is not well understood. Here, using a combination of CRISPR-based genetic screens and unbiased lipidomics, we identified calcineurin B homologous protein 1 (CHP1) as a major regulator of ER glycerolipid synthesis. Loss of CHP1 severely reduces fatty acid incorporation and storage in mammalian cells and invertebrates. Mechanistically, CHP1 binds and activates GPAT4, which catalyzes the initial rate-limiting step in glycerolipid synthesis. GPAT4 activity requires CHP1 to be N-myristoylated, forming a key molecular interface between the two proteins. Interestingly, upon CHP1 loss, the peroxisomal enzyme, GNPAT, partially compensates for the loss of ER lipid synthesis, enabling cell proliferation. Thus, our work identifies a conserved regulator of glycerolipid metabolism and reveals plasticity in lipid synthesis of proliferating cells."	1
"32532820"	"Mediator complex subunit 16 is down-regulated in papillary thyroid cancer, leading to increased transforming growth factor-β signaling and radioiodine resistance.Mediator complex subunit 16 (MED16) is a component of the mediator complex and functions as a coactivator in transcriptional events at almost all RNA polymerase II-dependent genes. In this study, we report that the expression of MED16 is markedly decreased in papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) tumors compared with normal thyroid tissues. <i>In vitro</i>, MED16 overexpression in PTC cells significantly inhibited cell migration, enhanced sodium/iodide symporter expression and iodine uptake, and decreased resistance to radioactive <sup>131</sup>I (RAI). Conversely, PTC cells in which MED16 had been further knocked down (MED16<sup>KD</sup>) exhibited enhanced cell migration, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and RAI resistance, accompanied by decreased sodium/iodide symporter levels. Moreover, cell signaling through transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) was highly activated after the MED16 knockdown. Similar results were obtained in MED12<sup>KD</sup> PTC cells, and a co-immunoprecipitation experiment verified interactions between MED16 and MED12 and between MED16 and TGF-βR2. Of note, the application of LY2157299, a potent inhibitor of TGF-β signaling, significantly attenuated MED16<sup>KD</sup>-induced RAI resistance both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> In conclusion, our findings indicate that MED16 reduction in PTC contributes to tumor progression and RAI resistance via the activation of the TGF-β pathway."	1
"32049005"	"Molecular Insight into Recognition of the CGRPR Complex by Migraine Prevention Therapy Aimovig (Erenumab).Calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) plays a key role in migraine pathophysiology. Aimovig (erenumab; erenumab-aooe in the United States) is the only US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved monoclonal antibody (mAb) therapy against the CGRP receptor (CGRPR) for the prevention of migraine. Aimovig is also the first FDA-approved mAb against a G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR). Here, we report the architecture and functional attributes of erenumab critical for its potent antagonism against CGRPR. The crystal structure of erenumab in complex with CGRPR reveals a direct ligand-blocking mechanism, enabled by a remarkable 21-residue-long complementary determining region (CDR)-H3 loop, which adopts a tyrosine-rich helix-turn tip and projects into the deep interface of the calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CLR) and RAMP1 subunits of CGRPR. Furthermore, erenumab engages with residues specific to CLR and RAMP1, providing the molecular basis for its exquisite selectivity. Such structural insights reveal the drug action mechanism of erenumab and shed light on developing antibody therapeutics targeting GPCRs."	0
"32460013"	"MKRN2 Physically Interacts with GLE1 to Regulate mRNA Export and Zebrafish Retinal Development.The mammalian mRNA nuclear export process is thought to terminate at the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex through ribonucleoprotein remodeling. We conduct a stringent affinity-purification mass-spectrometry-based screen of the physical interactions of human RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligases. The resulting protein-interaction network reveals interactions between the RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase MKRN2 and GLE1, a DEAD-box helicase activator implicated in mRNA export termination. We assess MKRN2 epistasis with GLE1 in a zebrafish model. Morpholino-mediated knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9-based knockout of MKRN2 partially rescue retinal developmental defects seen upon GLE1 depletion, consistent with a functional association between GLE1 and MKRN2. Using ribonomic approaches, we show that MKRN2 binds selectively to the 3' UTR of a diverse subset of mRNAs and that nuclear export of MKRN2-associated mRNAs is enhanced upon knockdown of MKRN2. Taken together, we suggest that MKRN2 interacts with GLE1 to selectively regulate mRNA nuclear export and retinal development."	1
"32402252"	"KAP1 Is a Chromatin Reader that Couples Steps of RNA Polymerase II Transcription to Sustain Oncogenic Programs.Precise control of the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) cycle, including pausing and pause release, maintains transcriptional homeostasis and organismal functions. Despite previous work to understand individual transcription steps, we reveal a mechanism that integrates RNA Pol II cycle transitions. Surprisingly, KAP1/TRIM28 uses a previously uncharacterized chromatin reader cassette to bind hypo-acetylated histone 4 tails at promoters, guaranteeing continuous progression of RNA Pol II entry to and exit from the pause state. Upon chromatin docking, KAP1 first associates with RNA Pol II and then recruits a pathway-specific transcription factor (SMAD2) in response to cognate ligands, enabling gene-selective CDK9-dependent pause release. This coupling mechanism is exploited by tumor cells to aberrantly sustain transcriptional programs commonly dysregulated in cancer patients. The discovery of a factor integrating transcription steps expands the functional repertoire by which chromatin readers operate and provides mechanistic understanding of transcription regulation, offering alternative therapeutic opportunities to target transcriptional dysregulation."	1
"30850331"	"Diverse Mechanisms of CRISPR-Cas9 Inhibition by Type IIC Anti-CRISPR Proteins.Anti-CRISPR proteins (Acrs) targeting CRISPR-Cas9 systems represent natural ""off switches"" for Cas9-based applications. Recently, AcrIIC1, AcrIIC2, and AcrIIC3 proteins were found to inhibit Neisseria meningitidis Cas9 (NmeCas9) activity in bacterial and human cells. Here we report biochemical and structural data that suggest molecular mechanisms of AcrIIC2- and AcrIIC3-mediated Cas9 inhibition. AcrIIC2 dimer interacts with the bridge helix of Cas9, interferes with RNA binding, and prevents DNA loading into Cas9. AcrIIC3 blocks the DNA loading step through binding to a non-conserved surface of the HNH domain of Cas9. AcrIIC3 also forms additional interactions with the REC lobe of Cas9 and induces the dimerization of the AcrIIC3-Cas9 complex. While AcrIIC2 targets Cas9 orthologs from different subtypes, albeit with different efficiency, AcrIIC3 specifically inhibits NmeCas9. Structure-guided changes in NmeCas9 orthologs convert them into anti-CRISPR-sensitive proteins. Our studies provide insights into anti-CRISPR-mediated suppression mechanisms and guidelines for designing regulatory tools in Cas9-based applications."	0
"32460015"	"Combined TP53 and RB1 Loss Promotes Prostate Cancer Resistance to a Spectrum of Therapeutics and Confers Vulnerability to Replication Stress.Prostate cancers (PCs) with loss of the potent tumor suppressors TP53 and RB1 exhibit poor outcomes. TP53 and RB1 also influence cell plasticity and are frequently lost in PCs with neuroendocrine (NE) differentiation. Therapeutic strategies that address these aggressive variant PCs are urgently needed. Using deep genomic profiling of 410 metastatic biopsies, we determine the relationships between combined TP53 and RB1 loss and PC phenotypes. Notably, 40% of TP53/RB1-deficient tumors are classified as AR-active adenocarcinomas, indicating that NE differentiation is not an obligate consequence of TP53/RB1 inactivation. A gene expression signature reflecting TP53/RB1 loss is associated with diminished responses to AR antagonists and reduced survival. These tumors exhibit high proliferation rates and evidence of elevated DNA repair processes. While tumor cells lacking TP53/RB1 are highly resistant to all single-agent therapeutics tested, the combination of PARP and ATR inhibition is found to produce significant responses, reflecting a clinically exploitable vulnerability resulting from replication stress."	0
"30878284"	"Apoptotic Caspases Suppress Type I Interferon Production via the Cleavage of cGAS, MAVS, and IRF3.Viral infection triggers host defenses through pattern-recognition receptor-mediated cytokine production, inflammasome activation, and apoptosis of the infected cells. Inflammasome-activated caspases are known to cleave cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS). Here, we found that apoptotic caspases are critically involved in regulating both DNA and RNA virus-triggered host defenses, in which activated caspase-3 cleaved cGAS, MAVS, and IRF3 to prevent cytokine overproduction. Caspase-3 was exclusively required in human cells, whereas caspase-7 was involved only in murine cells to inactivate cGAS, reflecting distinct regulatory mechanisms in different species. Caspase-mediated cGAS cleavage was enhanced in the presence of dsDNA. Alternative MAVS cleavage sites were used to ensure the inactivation of this critical protein. Elevated type I IFNs were detected in caspase-3-deficient cells without any infection. Casp3<sup>-/-</sup> mice consistently showed increased resistance to viral infection and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Our results demonstrate that apoptotic caspases control innate immunity and maintain immune homeostasis against viral infection."	1
"31230816"	"LINE-1 Evasion of Epigenetic Repression in Humans.Epigenetic silencing defends against LINE-1 (L1) retrotransposition in mammalian cells. However, the mechanisms that repress young L1 families and how L1 escapes to cause somatic genome mosaicism in the brain remain unclear. Here we report that a conserved Yin Yang 1 (YY1) transcription factor binding site mediates L1 promoter DNA methylation in pluripotent and differentiated cells. By analyzing 24 hippocampal neurons with three distinct single-cell genomic approaches, we characterized and validated a somatic L1 insertion bearing a 3' transduction. The source (donor) L1 for this insertion was slightly 5' truncated, lacked the YY1 binding site, and was highly mobile when tested in vitro. Locus-specific bisulfite sequencing revealed that the donor L1 and other young L1s with mutated YY1 binding sites were hypomethylated in embryonic stem cells, during neurodifferentiation, and in liver and brain tissue. These results explain how L1 can evade repression and retrotranspose in the human body."	0
"32611613"	"RNA polymerase III transcription as a disease factor.RNA polymerase (Pol) III is responsible for transcription of different noncoding genes in eukaryotic cells, whose RNA products have well-defined functions in translation and other biological processes for some, and functions that remain to be defined for others. For all of them, however, new functions are being described. For example, Pol III products have been reported to regulate certain proteins such as protein kinase R (PKR) by direct association, to constitute the source of very short RNAs with regulatory roles in gene expression, or to control microRNA levels by sequestration. Consistent with these many functions, deregulation of Pol III transcribed genes is associated with a large variety of human disorders. Here we review different human diseases that have been linked to defects in the Pol III transcription apparatus or to Pol III products imbalance and discuss the possible underlying mechanisms."	0
"32101739"	"Redefining Single-Trial Memories in the Honeybee.Research on honeybee memory has led to a widely accepted model in which a single pairing of an odor stimulus with sucrose induces memories that are independent of protein synthesis but is unable to form protein-synthesis-dependent long-term memory (LTM). The latter is said to arise only after three or more pairings of odor and sucrose. Here, we show that this model underestimates the capacity of the bee brain to form LTMs after a unique appetitive experience. Using state-of-the art conditioning setups and individual-based analyses of conditioned responses, we found that protein-synthesis-dependent memories are formed already 4 h after the single conditioning trial and persist even 3 days later. These memories (4 h, 24 h, and 72 h) exhibit different dependencies on transcription and translation processes. Our results thus modify the traditional view of one-trial memories in an insect with a model status for memory research."	0
"31806351"	"HMCES Functions in the Alternative End-Joining Pathway of the DNA DSB Repair during Class Switch Recombination in B Cells.HMCES (5hmC binding, embryonic stem cell-specific-protein), originally identified as a protein capable of binding 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), an epigenetic modification generated by TET proteins, was previously reported to covalently crosslink to DNA at abasic sites via a conserved cysteine. We show here that Hmces-deficient mice display normal hematopoiesis without global alterations in 5hmC. HMCES specifically enables DNA double-strand break repair through the microhomology-mediated alternative-end-joining (Alt-EJ) pathway during class switch recombination (CSR) in B cells, and HMCES deficiency leads to a significant defect in CSR. HMCES mediates Alt-EJ through its SOS-response-associated-peptidase domain (SRAPd), a function that requires DNA binding but is independent of its autopeptidase and DNA-crosslinking activities. We show that HMCES is recruited to switch regions of the immunoglobulin locus and provide a potential structural basis for the interaction of HMCES with long DNA overhangs generated by Alt-EJ during CSR. Our studies provide further evidence for a specialized role for HMCES in DNA repair."	0
"30745086"	"Oncogenic Notch Promotes Long-Range Regulatory Interactions within Hyperconnected 3D Cliques.Chromatin loops enable transcription-factor-bound distal enhancers to interact with their target promoters to regulate transcriptional programs. Although developmental transcription factors such as active forms of Notch can directly stimulate transcription by activating enhancers, the effect of their oncogenic subversion on the 3D organization of cancer genomes is largely undetermined. By mapping chromatin looping genome-wide in Notch-dependent triple-negative breast cancer and B cell lymphoma, we show that beyond the well-characterized role of Notch as an activator of distal enhancers, Notch regulates its direct target genes by instructing enhancer repositioning. Moreover, a large fraction of Notch-instructed regulatory loops form highly interacting enhancer and promoter spatial clusters termed ""3D cliques."" Loss- and gain-of-function experiments show that Notch preferentially targets hyperconnected 3D cliques that regulate the expression of crucial proto-oncogenes. Our observations suggest that oncogenic hijacking of developmental transcription factors can dysregulate transcription through widespread effects on the spatial organization of cancer genomes."	0
"32101729"	"Probing RNA Conformational Equilibria within the Functional Cellular Context.Low-abundance short-lived non-native conformations referred to as excited states (ESs) are increasingly observed in vitro and implicated in the folding and biological activities of regulatory RNAs. We developed an approach for assessing the relative abundance of RNA ESs within the functional cellular context. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was used to estimate the degree to which substitution mutations bias conformational equilibria toward the inactive ES in vitro. The cellular activity of the ES-stabilizing mutants was used as an indirect measure of the conformational equilibria within the functional cellular context. Compensatory mutations that restore the ground-state conformation were used to control for changes in sequence. Using this approach, we show that the ESs of two regulatory RNAs from HIV-1, the transactivation response element (TAR) and the Rev response element (RRE), likely form in cells with abundances comparable to those measured in vitro, and their targeted stabilization may provide an avenue for developing anti-HIV therapeutics."	0
"32631953"	"Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome-associated mutants of the transcription factor FOXC1 abnormally regulate <i>NKX2-5</i> in model zebrafish embryos.FOXC1 is a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors, and whose function is poorly understood. A variety of <i>FOXC1</i> mutants have been identified in patients diagnosed with the autosomal dominant disease Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome, which is mainly characterized by abnormal development of the eyes, particularly those who also have accompanying congenital heart defects (CHD). However, the role of FOXC1 in CHD, and how these mutations might impact FOXC1 function, remains elusive. Our previous work provided one clue to possible function, demonstrating that zebrafish <i>foxc1a</i>, an orthologue of human <i>FOXC1</i> essential for heart development, directly regulates the expression of <i>nkx2.5</i>, encoding a transcriptional regulator of cardiac progenitor cells. Abnormal expression of <i>Nkx2-5</i> leads to CHD in mice and is also associated with CHD patients. Whether this link extends to the human system, however, requires investigation. In this study, we demonstrate that FOXC1 does regulate human <i>NKX2-5</i> expression in a dose-dependent manner via direct binding to its proximal promoter. A comparison of FOXC1 mutant function in the rat cardiac cell line H9c2 and zebrafish embryos suggested that the zebrafish embryos might serve as a more representative model system than the H9c2 cells. Finally, we noted that three of the Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome FOXC1 mutations tested increased, whereas a fourth repressed the expression of <i>NKX2-5</i> These results imply that mutant FOXC1s might play etiological roles in CHD by abnormally regulating <i>NKX2-5</i> in the patients. And zebrafish embryos can serve as a useful <i>in vivo</i> platform for rapidly evaluating disease-causing roles of mutated genes."	1
"32029453"	"Nuclear PARPs and genome integrity.Effective maintenance and stability of our genomes is essential for normal cell division, tissue homeostasis, and cellular and organismal fitness. The processes of chromosome replication and segregation require continual surveillance to insure fidelity. Accurate and efficient repair of DNA damage preserves genome integrity, which if lost can lead to multiple diseases, including cancer. Poly(ADP-ribose) a dynamic and reversible posttranslational modification and the enzymes that catalyze it (PARP1, PARP2, tankyrase 1, and tankyrase 2) function to maintain genome stability through diverse mechanisms. Here we review the role of these enzymes and the modification in genome repair, replication, and resolution in human cells."	0
"32792353"	"The Daam2-VHL-Nedd4 axis governs developmental and regenerative oligodendrocyte differentiation.Dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS) enables pathogenic accumulation of disease-driving proteins in neurons across a host of neurological disorders. However, whether and how the UPS contributes to oligodendrocyte dysfunction and repair after white matter injury (WMI) remains undefined. Here we show that the E3 ligase VHL interacts with Daam2 and their mutual antagonism regulates oligodendrocyte differentiation during development. Using proteomic analysis of the Daam2-VHL complex coupled with conditional genetic knockout mouse models, we further discovered that the E3 ubiquitin ligase <i>Nedd4</i> is required for developmental myelination through stabilization of VHL via K63-linked ubiquitination. Furthermore, studies in mouse demyelination models and white matter lesions from patients with multiple sclerosis corroborate the function of this pathway during remyelination after WMI. Overall, these studies provide evidence that a signaling axis involving key UPS components contributes to oligodendrocyte development and repair and reveal a new role for <i>Nedd4</i> in glial biology."	1
"32703900"	"Regulation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 dynamics through multisite phosphorylation by GSK3.Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 (eIF6) is essential for the synthesis of 60S ribosomal subunits and for regulating the association of 60S and 40S subunits. A mechanistic understanding of how eIF6 modulates translation in response to stress, specifically starvation-induced stress, is lacking. We here show a novel mode of eIF6 regulation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) that is predominantly active in response to serum starvation. Both GSK3α and GSK3β phosphorylate human eIF6. Multiple residues in the C terminus of eIF6 are phosphorylated by GSK3 in a sequential manner. In response to serum starvation, eIF6 accumulates in the cytoplasm, and this altered localization depends on phosphorylation by GSK3. Disruption of eIF6 phosphorylation exacerbates the translation inhibitory response to serum starvation and stalls cell growth. These results suggest that eIF6 regulation by GSK3 contributes to the attenuation of global protein synthesis that is critical for adaptation to starvation-induced stress."	1
"31968239"	"Loss of bhlha9 Impairs Thermotaxis and Formalin-Evoked Pain in a Sexually Dimorphic Manner.C-LTMRs are known to convey affective aspects of touch and to modulate injury-induced pain in humans and mice. However, a role for these neurons in temperature sensation has been suggested, but not fully demonstrated. Here, we report that deletion of C-low-threshold mechanoreceptor (C-LTMR)-expressed bhlha9 causes impaired thermotaxis behavior and exacerbated formalin-evoked pain in male, but not female, mice. Positive modulators of GABA<sub>A</sub> receptors failed to relieve inflammatory formalin pain and failed to decrease the frequency of spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic currents (sEPSCs) selectively in bhlha9 knockout (KO) males. This could be explained by a drastic change in the GABA content of lamina II inner inhibitory interneurons contacting C-LTMR central terminals. Finally, C-LTMR-specific deep RNA sequencing revealed more genes differentially expressed in male than in female bhlha9 KO C-LTMRs. Our data consolidate the role of C-LTMRs in modulation of formalin pain and provide in vivo evidence of their role in the discriminative aspects of temperature sensation."	0
"32726624"	"An Apoptotic Caspase Network Safeguards Cell Death Induction in Pyroptotic Macrophages.Pyroptosis has emerged as a key mechanism by which inflammasomes promote host defense against microbial pathogens and sterile inflammation. Gasdermin D (GSDMD)-mediated cell lysis is a hallmark of pyroptosis, but our understanding of cell death signaling during pyroptosis is fragmented. Here, we show that independently of GSDMD-mediated plasma membrane permeabilization, inflammasome receptors engage caspase-1 and caspase-8, both of which redundantly promote activation of apoptotic executioner caspase-3 and caspase-7 in pyroptotic macrophages. Impaired GSDMD pore formation downstream of caspase-1 and caspase-8 activation suffices to unmask the apoptotic phenotype of pyroptotic macrophages. Combined inactivation of initiator caspase-1 and caspase-8, or executioner caspase-3 and caspase-7, is required to abolish inflammasome-induced DEVDase activity during pyroptosis and in apoptotic Gsdmd<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Collectively, these results unveil a robust apoptotic caspase network that is activated in parallel to GSDMD-mediated plasma membrane permeabilization and safeguards cell death induction in pyroptotic macrophages."	1
"31951544"	"Ant-icipating Change: An Epigenetic Switch in Reprogramming the Social Lives of Ants.Glastad et al. (2019) describe a role for the neuronal CoREST corepressor and changes in juvenile hormone (JH) and ecdysone signaling during the reprogramming of social behavioral phenotypes in ants that are reflective of a natural mechanism differentiating ""Major"" and ""Minor"" worker ants."	0
"30595439"	"Helicase Subunit Cdc45 Targets the Checkpoint Kinase Rad53 to Both Replication Initiation and Elongation Complexes after Fork Stalling.Across eukaryotes, disruption of DNA replication causes an S phase checkpoint response, which regulates multiple processes, including inhibition of replication initiation and fork stabilization. How these events are coordinated remains poorly understood. Here, we show that the replicative helicase component Cdc45 targets the checkpoint kinase Rad53 to distinct replication complexes in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rad53 binds to forkhead-associated (FHA) interaction motifs in an unstructured loop region of Cdc45, which is phosphorylated by Rad53 itself, and this interaction is necessary for the inhibition of origin firing through Sld3. Cdc45 also recruits Rad53 to stalled replication forks, which we demonstrate is important for the response to replication stress. Finally, we show that a Cdc45 mutation found in patients with Meier-Gorlin syndrome disrupts the functional interaction with Rad53 in yeast. Together, we present a single mechanism by which a checkpoint kinase targets replication initiation and elongation complexes, which may be relevant to human disease."	1
"32460019"	"Regulation of Expression of Autophagy Genes by Atg8a-Interacting Partners Sequoia, YL-1, and Sir2 in Drosophila.Autophagy is the degradation of cytoplasmic material through the lysosomal pathway. One of the most studied autophagy-related proteins is LC3. Despite growing evidence that LC3 is enriched in the nucleus, its nuclear role is poorly understood. Here, we show that Drosophila Atg8a protein, homologous to mammalian LC3, interacts with the transcription factor Sequoia in a LIR motif-dependent manner. We show that Sequoia depletion induces autophagy in nutrient-rich conditions through the enhanced expression of autophagy genes. We show that Atg8a interacts with YL-1, a component of a nuclear acetyltransferase complex, and that it is acetylated in nutrient-rich conditions. We also show that Atg8a interacts with the deacetylase Sir2, which deacetylates Atg8a during starvation to activate autophagy. Our results suggest a mechanism of regulation of the expression of autophagy genes by Atg8a, which is linked to its acetylation status and its interaction with Sequoia, YL-1, and Sir2."	1
"32075737"	"CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> T Cells Are Highly Enriched for HIV DNA and Can Support Transcriptional Latency.The HIV latent reservoir forms the major hurdle to an HIV cure. The discovery of CD32 as marker of this reservoir has aroused much interest, but subsequent reports have challenged this finding. Here, we observe a positive correlation between the percentages of CD32<sup>+</sup> cells among CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells of aviremic cART-treated, HIV-infected individuals and their HIV DNA loads in peripheral blood. Moreover, optimization of the CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> T cell purification protocol reveals prominent enrichment for HIV DNA (mean, 292-fold) in these cells. However, no enrichment for HIV RNA is observed in CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> cells, yielding significantly reduced HIV RNA/DNA ratios. Furthermore, HIV proviruses in CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> cells can be reactivated ex vivo to produce virus, strongly suggesting that these cells support HIV transcriptional latency. Our results underscore the importance of isolating pure, bona fide CD32<sup>+</sup>CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells for future studies and indicate that CD32 remains a promising candidate marker of the HIV reservoir."	0
"32160555"	"Cellular Classes in the Human Brain Revealed In Vivo by Heartbeat-Related Modulation of the Extracellular Action Potential Waveform.Determining cell types is critical for understanding neural circuits but remains elusive in the living human brain. Current approaches discriminate units into putative cell classes using features of the extracellular action potential (EAP); in absence of ground truth data, this remains a problematic procedure. We find that EAPs in deep structures of the brain exhibit robust and systematic variability during the cardiac cycle. These cardiac-related features refine neural classification. We use these features to link bio-realistic models generated from in vitro human whole-cell recordings of morphologically classified neurons to in vivo recordings. We differentiate aspiny inhibitory and spiny excitatory human hippocampal neurons and, in a second stage, demonstrate that cardiac-motion features reveal two types of spiny neurons with distinct intrinsic electrophysiological properties and phase-locking characteristics to endogenous oscillations. This multi-modal approach markedly improves cell classification in humans, offers interpretable cell classes, and is applicable to other brain areas and species."	0
"30794791"	"CRISPR-Cas Systems Reduced to a Minimum.In two recent studies in Molecular Cell, Wright et al. (2019) report complete spacer integration by a Cas1 mini-integrase and Edraki et al. (2019) describe accurate genome editing by a small Cas9 ortholog with less stringent PAM requirements."	0
"32294430"	"Cdk4 and Cdk6 Couple the Cell-Cycle Machinery to Cell Growth via mTORC1.Cell growth is coupled to cell-cycle progression in mitotically proliferating mammalian cells, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. CyclinD-Cdk4/6 is known to phosphorylate RB to promote S-phase entry, but recent work suggests they have additional functions. We show here that CyclinD-Cdk4/6 activates mTORC1 by binding and phosphorylating TSC2 on Ser1217 and Ser1452. Pharmacological inhibition of Cdk4/6 leads to a rapid, TSC2-dependent reduction of mTORC1 activity in multiple human and mouse cell lines, including breast cancer cells. By simultaneously driving mTORC1 and E2F, CyclinD-Cdk4/6 couples cell growth to cell-cycle progression. Consistent with this, we see that mTORC1 activity is cell cycle dependent in proliferating neural stem cells of the adult rodent brain. We find that Cdk4/6 inhibition reduces cell proliferation partly via TSC2 and mTORC1. This is of clinical relevance, because Cdk4/6 inhibitors are used for breast cancer therapy."	1
"32471866"	"Engineered anti-inflammatory peptides inspired by mapping an evasin-chemokine interaction.Chemokines mediate leukocyte migration and homeostasis and are key targets in inflammatory diseases including atherosclerosis, cytokine storm, and chronic autoimmune disease. Chemokine redundancy and ensuing network robustness has frustrated therapeutic development. Salivary evasins from ticks bind multiple chemokines to overcome redundancy and are effective in several preclinical disease models. Their clinical development has not progressed because of concerns regarding potential immunogenicity, parenteral delivery, and cost. Peptides mimicking protein activity can overcome the perceived limitations of therapeutic proteins. Here we show that peptides possessing multiple chemokine-binding and anti-inflammatory activities can be developed from the chemokine-binding site of an evasin. We used hydrogen-deuterium exchange MS to map the binding interface of the evasin P672 that physically interacts with C-C motif chemokine ligand (CCL) 8 and synthesized a 16-mer peptide (BK1.1) based on this interface region in evasin P672. Fluorescent polarization and native MS approaches showed that BK1.1 binds CCL8, CCL7, and CCL18 and disrupts CCL8 homodimerization. We show that a BK1.1 derivative, BK1.3, has substantially improved ability to disrupt P672 binding to CCL8, CCL2, and CCL3 in an AlphaScreen assay. Using isothermal titration calorimetry, we show that BK1.3 directly binds CCL8. BK1.3 also has substantially improved ability to inhibit CCL8, CCL7, CCL2, and CCL3 chemotactic function <i>in vitro</i> We show that local as well as systemic administration of BK1.3 potently blocks inflammation <i>in vivo</i> Identification and characterization of the chemokine-binding interface of evasins could thus inspire the development of novel anti-inflammatory peptides that therapeutically target the chemokine network in inflammatory diseases."	0
"32367048"	"Differentiation of transplanted haematopoietic stem cells tracked by single-cell transcriptomic analysis.How transplanted haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) behave soon after they reside in a preconditioned host has not been studied due to technical limitations. Here, using single-cell RNA sequencing, we first obtained the transcriptome-based classifications of 28 haematopoietic cell types. We then applied them in conjunction with functional assays to track the dynamic changes of immunophenotypically purified HSCs in irradiated recipients within the first week after transplantation. Based on our transcriptional classifications, most homed HSCs in bone marrow and spleen became multipotent progenitors and, occasionally, some HSCs gave rise to megakaryocytic-erythroid or myeloid precursors. Parallel in vitro and in vivo functional experiments supported the paradigm of robust differentiation without substantial HSC expansion during the first week. Therefore, this study uncovers the previously inaccessible kinetics and fate choices of transplanted HSCs in myeloablated recipients at early stage, with implications for clinical applications of HSCs and other stem cells."	0
"30901564"	"MST1 Negatively Regulates TNFα-Induced NF-κB Signaling through Modulating LUBAC Activity.The nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathway plays a central role in inflammatory and immune responses, with aberrant activation of NF-κB signaling being implicated in various human disorders. Here, we show that mammalian ste20-like kinase 1 (MST1) is a previously unrecognized component of the tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) receptor 1 signaling complex (TNF-RSC) and attenuates TNFα-induced NF-κB signaling. Genetic ablation of MST1 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and bone marrow-derived macrophages potentiated the TNFα-induced increase in IκB kinase (IKK) activity, as well as the expression of NF-κB target genes. TNFα induced the recruitment of MST1 to TNF-RSC and its interaction with HOIP, the catalytic component of the E3 ligase linear ubiquitin assembly complex (LUBAC). Furthermore, MST1 activated in response to TNFα stimulation mediates the phosphorylation of HOIP and thereby inhibited LUBAC-dependent linear ubiquitination of NEMO/IKKγ. Together, our findings suggest that MST1 negatively regulates TNFα-induced NF-κB signaling by targeting LUBAC."	1
"32075755"	"ELAC1 Repairs tRNAs Cleaved during Ribosome-Associated Quality Control.Ribosome-associated quality control (RQC) disassembles aberrantly stalled translation complexes to recycle or degrade the constituent parts. A key step of RQC is the cleavage of P-site tRNA by the endonuclease ANKZF1 (Vms1 in yeast) to release incompletely synthesized polypeptides from ribosomes for degradation. Re-use of the cleaved tRNA for translation requires re-addition of the universal 3'CCA nucleotides removed by ANKZF1. Here, we show that ELAC1 is both necessary and sufficient to remove the 2',3'-cyclic phosphate on ANKZF1-cleaved tRNAs to permit CCA re-addition by TRNT1. ELAC1 activity is optimized for tRNA recycling, whereas ELAC2, the essential RNase Z isoform in eukaryotes, is required to remove 3' trailers during tRNA biogenesis. Cells lacking ELAC1 specifically accumulate unrepaired tRNA intermediates upon the induction of ribosome stalling. Thus, optimal recycling of ANKZF1-cleaved tRNAs in vertebrates is achieved through the duplication and specialization of a conserved tRNA biosynthesis enzyme."	0
"31444107"	"Proteomics Links Ubiquitin Chain Topology Change to Transcription Factor Activation.A surprising complexity of ubiquitin signaling has emerged with identification of different ubiquitin chain topologies. However, mechanisms of how the diverse ubiquitin codes control biological processes remain poorly understood. Here, we use quantitative whole-proteome mass spectrometry to identify yeast proteins that are regulated by lysine 11 (K11)-linked ubiquitin chains. The entire Met4 pathway, which links cell proliferation with sulfur amino acid metabolism, was significantly affected by K11 chains and selected for mechanistic studies. Previously, we demonstrated that a K48-linked ubiquitin chain represses the transcription factor Met4. Here, we show that efficient Met4 activation requires a K11-linked topology. Mechanistically, our results propose that the K48 chain binds to a topology-selective tandem ubiquitin binding region in Met4 and competes with binding of the basal transcription machinery to the same region. The change to K11-enriched chain architecture releases this competition and permits binding of the basal transcription complex to activate transcription."	0
"31586547"	"γ-6-Phosphogluconolactone, a Byproduct of the Oxidative Pentose Phosphate Pathway, Contributes to AMPK Activation through Inhibition of PP2A.The oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (oxiPPP) contributes to cell metabolism through not only the production of metabolic intermediates and reductive NADPH but also inhibition of LKB1-AMPK signaling by ribulose-5-phosphate (Ru-5-P), the product of the third oxiPPP enzyme 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD). However, we found that knockdown of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), the first oxiPPP enzyme, did not affect AMPK activation despite decreased Ru-5-P and subsequent LKB1 activation, due to enhanced activity of PP2A, the upstream phosphatase of AMPK. In contrast, knockdown of 6PGD or 6-phosphogluconolactonase (PGLS), the second oxiPPP enzyme, reduced PP2A activity. Mechanistically, knockdown of G6PD or PGLS decreased or increased 6-phosphogluconolactone level, respectively, which enhanced the inhibitory phosphorylation of PP2A by Src. Furthermore, γ-6-phosphogluconolactone, an oxiPPP byproduct with unknown function generated through intramolecular rearrangement of δ-6-phosphogluconolactone, the only substrate of PGLS, bound to Src and enhanced PP2A recruitment. Together, oxiPPP regulates AMPK homeostasis by balancing the opposing LKB1 and PP2A."	1
"31708417"	"ATR Protects the Genome against R Loops through a MUS81-Triggered Feedback Loop.R loops arising during transcription induce genomic instability, but how cells respond to the R loop-associated genomic stress is still poorly understood. Here, we show that cells harboring high levels of R loops rely on the ATR kinase for survival. In response to aberrant R loop accumulation, the ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR)-Chk1 pathway is activated by R loop-induced reversed replication forks. In contrast to the activation of ATR by replication inhibitors, R loop-induced ATR activation requires the MUS81 endonuclease. ATR protects the genome from R loops by suppressing transcription-replication collisions, promoting replication fork recovery, and enforcing a G2/M cell-cycle arrest. Furthermore, ATR prevents excessive cleavage of reversed forks by MUS81, revealing a MUS81-triggered and ATR-mediated feedback loop that fine-tunes MUS81 activity at replication forks. These results suggest that ATR is a key sensor and suppressor of R loop-induced genomic instability, uncovering a signaling circuitry that safeguards the genome against R loops."	1
"32636303"	"Interleukin-6-mediated epigenetic control of the VEGFR2 gene induces disorganized angiogenesis in human breast tumors.Disorganized vessels in the tumor vasculature lead to impaired perfusion, resulting in reduced accessibility to immune cells and chemotherapeutic drugs. In the breast tumor-stroma interplay, paracrine factors such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) often facilitate disordered angiogenesis. We show here that epigenetic mechanisms regulate the crosstalk between IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) signaling pathways in myoepithelial (CD10<sup>+</sup>) and endothelial (CD31<sup>+</sup>, CD105<sup>+</sup>, CD146<sup>+</sup>, and CD133<sup>-</sup>) cells isolated from malignant and nonmalignant tissues of clinically characterized human breast tumors. Tumor endothelial (Endo-T) cells in 3D cultures exhibited higher VEGFR2 expression levels, accelerated migration, invasion, and disorganized sprout formation in response to elevated IL-6 levels secreted by tumor myoepithelial (Epi-T) cells. Constitutively, compared with normal endothelial (Endo-N) cells, Endo-T cells differentially expressed DNA methyltransferase isoforms and had increased levels of IL-6 signaling intermediates such as IL-6R and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Upon IL-6 treatment, Endo-N and Endo-T cells displayed altered expression of the DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) isoform. Mechanistic studies revealed that IL-6 induced proteasomal degradation of DNMT1, but not of DNMT3A and DNMT3B and subsequently led to promoter hypomethylation and expression/activation of <i>VEGFR2.</i> IL-6-induced VEGFR2 up-regulation was inhibited by overexpression of DNMT1. Transfection of a dominant-negative STAT3 mutant, but not of STAT1, abrogated VEGFR2 expression. Our results indicate that in the breast tumor microenvironment, IL-6 secreted from myoepithelial cells influences DNMT1 stability, induces the expression of VEGFR2 in endothelial cells via a promoter methylation-dependent mechanism, and leads to disordered angiogenesis."	1
"32402276"	"S-phase Enriched Non-coding RNAs Regulate Gene Expression and Cell Cycle Progression.Many proteins that are needed for progression through S-phase are produced from transcripts that peak in the S-phase, linking temporal expression of those proteins to the time that they are required in cell cycle. Here, we explore the potential roles of long non-coding RNAs in cell cycle progression. We use a sensitive click-chemistry approach to isolate nascent RNAs in a human cell line, and we identify more than 900 long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) whose synthesis peaks during the S-phase. More than 200 of these are long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) with S-phase-specific expression. We characterize three of these lincRNAs by knockdown and find that all three lincRNAs are required for appropriate S-phase progression. We infer that non-coding RNAs are key regulatory effectors during the cell cycle, acting on distinct regulatory networks, and herein, we provide a large catalog of candidate cell-cycle regulatory RNAs."	0
"32579923"	"Microglia Dysfunction Caused by the Loss of Rhoa Disrupts Neuronal Physiology and Leads to Neurodegeneration.Nervous tissue homeostasis requires the regulation of microglia activity. Using conditional gene targeting in mice, we demonstrate that genetic ablation of the small GTPase Rhoa in adult microglia is sufficient to trigger spontaneous microglia activation, producing a neurological phenotype (including synapse and neuron loss, impairment of long-term potentiation [LTP], formation of β-amyloid plaques, and memory deficits). Mechanistically, loss of Rhoa in microglia triggers Src activation and Src-mediated tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, leading to excitotoxic glutamate secretion. Inhibiting Src in microglia Rhoa-deficient mice attenuates microglia dysregulation and the ensuing neurological phenotype. We also find that the Rhoa/Src signaling pathway is disrupted in microglia of the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer disease and that low doses of Aβ oligomers trigger microglia neurotoxic polarization through the disruption of Rhoa-to-Src signaling. Overall, our results indicate that disturbing Rho GTPase signaling in microglia can directly cause neurodegeneration."	1
"32726637"	"L ARP7 Is a BRCA1 Ubiquitinase Substrate and Regulates Genome Stability and Tumorigenesis.Attenuated DNA repair leads to genomic instability and tumorigenesis. BRCA1/BARD1 are the best-known tumor suppressors that promote homology recombination (HR) and arrest cell cycle. However, it remains ambiguous whether and how their E3 ligase activity regulates HR. Here, we demonstrate that upon genotoxic stress, BRCA1 together with BARD1 catalyzes the K48 polyubiquitination on LARP7, a 7SK RNA binding protein known to control RNAPII pausing, and thereby degrades it through the 26S ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Depleting LARP7 suppresses the expression of CDK1 complex, arrests the cell at the G2/M DNA damage checkpoint, and reduces BRCA2 phosphorylation, which thereby facilitates RAD51 recruitment to damaged DNA to enhance HR. Importantly, LARP7 depletion observed in breast cancer patients leads to chemoradiotherapy resistance both in vitro and in vivo. Altogether, this study unveils a mechanism by which BRCA1/BARD1 control HR and cell cycle, and highlights LARP7 as a potential target for cancer prevention and therapy."	1
"32675284"	"Caspr2 interacts with type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the developing cerebellum and regulates Purkinje cell morphology.Contactin-associated protein-like 2 (Caspr2) is a neurexin-like protein that has been associated with numerous neurological conditions. However, the specific functional roles that Caspr2 plays in the central nervous system and their underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we report on a functional role for Caspr2 in the developing cerebellum. Using a combination of confocal microscopy, biochemical analyses, and behavioral testing, we show that loss of Caspr2 in the <i>Cntnap2</i><sup>-/-</sup> knockout mouse results in impaired Purkinje cell dendritic development, altered intracellular signaling, and motor coordination deficits. We also find that Caspr2 is highly enriched at synaptic specializations in the cerebellum. Using a proteomics approach, we identify type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP<sub>3</sub>R1) as a specific synaptic interaction partner of the Caspr2 extracellular domain in the molecular layer of the developing cerebellum. The interaction of the Caspr2 extracellular domain with IP<sub>3</sub>R1 inhibits IP<sub>3</sub>R1-mediated changes in cellular morphology. Together, our work defines a mechanism by which Caspr2 controls the development and function of the cerebellum and advances our understanding of how Caspr2 dysfunction might lead to specific brain disorders."	1
"32636304"	"The barley lectin, horcolin, binds high-mannose glycans in a multivalent fashion, enabling high-affinity, specific inhibition of cellular HIV infection.<i>N</i>-Linked glycans are critical to the infection cycle of HIV, and most neutralizing antibodies target the high-mannose glycans found on the surface envelope glycoprotein-120 (gp120). Carbohydrate-binding proteins, particularly mannose-binding lectins, have also been shown to bind these glycans. Despite their therapeutic potency, their ability to cause lymphocyte proliferation limits their application. In this study, we report one such lectin named horcolin (<i>Hordeum vulgare</i> lectin), seen to lack mitogenicity owing to the divergence in the residues at its carbohydrate-binding sites, which makes it a promising candidate for exploration as an anti-HIV agent. Extensive isothermal titration calorimetry experiments reveal that the lectin was sensitive to the length and branching of mannooligosaccharides and thereby the total valency. Modeling and simulation studies demonstrate two distinct modes of binding, a monovalent binding to shorter saccharides and a bivalent mode for higher glycans, involving simultaneous interactions of multiple glycan arms with the primary carbohydrate-binding sites. This multivalent mode of binding was further strengthened by interactions of core mannosyl residues with a secondary conserved site on the protein, leading to an exponential increase in affinity. Finally, we confirmed the interaction of horcolin with recombinant gp120 and gp140 with high affinity and inhibition of HIV infection at nanomolar concentrations without mitogenicity."	0
"32937126"	"Single Nucleotide Resolution Analysis Reveals Pervasive, Long-Lasting DNA Methylation Changes by Developmental Exposure to a Mitochondrial Toxicant.Mitochondrial-driven alterations of the epigenome have been reported, but whether they are relevant at the organismal level remains unknown. The viable yellow agouti mouse (A<sup>vy</sup>) is a powerful epigenetic biosensor model that reports on the DNA methylation status of the A<sup>vy</sup> locus, which is established prior to the three-germ-layer separation, through the coat color of the animals. Here we show that maternal exposure to rotenone, a potent mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, not only changes the DNA methylation status of the A<sup>vy</sup> locus in the skin but broadly affects the liver DNA methylome of the offspring. These effects are accompanied by altered gene expression programs that persist throughout life, and which associate with impairment of antioxidant activity and mitochondrial function in aged animals. These pervasive and lasting genomic effects suggest a putative role for mitochondria in regulating life-long gene expression programs through developmental nuclear epigenetic remodeling."	0
"32482893"	"A-kinase-anchoring protein 1 (dAKAP1)-based signaling complexes coordinate local protein synthesis at the mitochondrial surface.Compartmentalization of macromolecules is a ubiquitous molecular mechanism that drives numerous cellular functions. The appropriate organization of enzymes in space and time enables the precise transmission and integration of intracellular signals. Molecular scaffolds constrain signaling enzymes to influence the regional modulation of these physiological processes. Mitochondrial targeting of protein kinases and protein phosphatases provides a means to locally control the phosphorylation status and action of proteins on the surface of this organelle. Dual-specificity protein kinase A anchoring protein 1 (dAKAP1) is a multivalent binding protein that targets protein kinase A (PKA), RNAs, and other signaling enzymes to the outer mitochondrial membrane. Many AKAPs recruit a diverse set of binding partners that coordinate a broad range of cellular processes. Here, results of MS and biochemical analyses reveal that dAKAP1 anchors additional components, including the ribonucleoprotein granule components La-related protein 4 (LARP4) and polyadenylate-binding protein 1 (PABPC1). Local translation of mRNAs at organelles is a means to spatially control the synthesis of proteins. RNA-Seq data demonstrate that dAKAP1 binds mRNAs encoding proteins required for mitochondrial metabolism, including succinate dehydrogenase. Functional studies suggest that the loss of dAKAP1-RNA interactions reduces mitochondrial electron transport chain activity. Hence, dAKAP1 plays a previously unappreciated role as a molecular interface between second messenger signaling and local protein synthesis machinery."	1
"32616651"	"The autophagy protein Ambra1 regulates gene expression by supporting novel transcriptional complexes.Ambra1 is considered an autophagy and trafficking protein with roles in neurogenesis and cancer cell invasion. Here, we report that Ambra1 also localizes to the nucleus of cancer cells, where it has a novel nuclear scaffolding function that controls gene expression. Using biochemical fractionation and proteomics, we found that Ambra1 binds to multiple classes of proteins in the nucleus, including nuclear pore proteins, adaptor proteins such as FAK and Akap8, chromatin-modifying proteins, and transcriptional regulators like Brg1 and Atf2. We identified biologically important genes, such as <i>Angpt1</i>, <i>Tgfb2</i>, <i>Tgfb3</i>, <i>Itga8</i>, and <i>Itgb7</i>, whose transcription is regulated by Ambra1-scaffolded complexes, likely by altering histone modifications and Atf2 activity. Therefore, in addition to its recognized roles in autophagy and trafficking, Ambra1 scaffolds protein complexes at chromatin, regulating transcriptional signaling in the nucleus. This novel function for Ambra1, and the specific genes impacted, may help to explain the wider role of Ambra1 in cancer cell biology."	1
"32668239"	"The Apparent Requirement for Protein Synthesis during G2 Phase Is due to Checkpoint Activation.Protein synthesis inhibitors (e.g., cycloheximide) block mitotic entry, suggesting that cell cycle progression requires protein synthesis until right before mitosis. However, cycloheximide is also known to activate p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), which can delay mitotic entry through a G2/M checkpoint. Here, we ask whether checkpoint activation or a requirement for protein synthesis is responsible for the cycloheximide effect. We find that p38 inhibitors prevent cycloheximide-treated cells from arresting in G2 phase and that G2 duration is normal in approximately half of these cells. The Wee1 inhibitor MK-1775 and Wee1/Myt1 inhibitor PD0166285 also prevent cycloheximide from blocking mitotic entry, raising the possibility that Wee1 and/or Myt1 mediate the cycloheximide-induced G2 arrest. Thus, protein synthesis during G2 phase is not required for mitotic entry, at least when the p38 checkpoint pathway is abrogated. However, M phase progression is delayed in cycloheximide-plus-kinase-inhibitor-treated cells, emphasizing the different requirements of protein synthesis for timely entry and completion of mitosis."	1
"32755574"	"Molecular Transducers of Human Skeletal Muscle Remodeling under Different Loading States.Loading of skeletal muscle changes the tissue phenotype reflecting altered metabolic and functional demands. In humans, heterogeneous adaptation to loading complicates the identification of the underpinning molecular regulators. A within-person differential loading and analysis strategy reduces heterogeneity for changes in muscle mass by ∼40% and uses a genome-wide transcriptome method that models each mRNA from coding exons and 3' and 5' untranslated regions (UTRs). Our strategy detects ∼3-4 times more regulated genes than similarly sized studies, including substantial UTR-selective regulation undetected by other methods. We discover a core of 141 genes correlated to muscle growth, which we validate from newly analyzed independent samples (n = 100). Further validating these identified genes via RNAi in primary muscle cells, we demonstrate that members of the core genes were regulators of protein synthesis. Using proteome-constrained networks and pathway analysis reveals notable relationships with the molecular characteristics of human muscle aging and insulin sensitivity, as well as potential drug therapies."	0
"32187539"	"The Borrelia burgdorferi VlsE Lipoprotein Prevents Antibody Binding to an Arthritis-Related Surface Antigen.Arp is an immunogenic protein of the Lyme disease spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi and contributes to joint inflammation during infection. Despite Arp eliciting a strong humoral response, antibodies fail to clear the infection. Given previous evidence of immune avoidance mediated by the antigenically variable lipoprotein of B. burgdorferi, VlsE, we use passive immunization assays to examine whether VlsE protects the pathogen from anti-Arp antibodies. The results show that spirochetes are only able to successfully infect passively immunized mice when VlsE is expressed. Subsequent immunofluorescence assays reveal that VlsE prevents binding of Arp-specific antibodies, thereby providing an explanation for the failure of Arp antisera to clear the infection. The results also show that the shielding effect of VlsE is not universal for all B. burgdorferi cell-surface antigens. The findings reported here represent a direct demonstration of VlsE-mediated protection of a specific B. burgdorferi surface antigen through a possible epitope-shielding mechanism."	0
"32521266"	"Afadin Signaling at the Spinal Neuroepithelium Regulates Central Canal Formation and Gait Selection.Afadin, a scaffold protein controlling the activity of the nectin family of cell adhesion molecules, regulates important morphogenetic processes during development. In the central nervous system, afadin has critical roles in neuronal migration, axonal elongation, and synapse formation. Here we examine the role of afadin in development of spinal motor circuits. Afadin elimination in motor neuron progenitors results in striking locomotor behavior: left-right limb alternation is substituted by synchronous activation, characteristic of bound gait. We find that afadin function at the neuroepithelium is required for structural organization of the spinal midline and central canal morphogenesis. Perturbation of afadin results in formation of two central canals, aberrant contralateral wiring of different classes of spinal premotor interneurons, and loss of left-right limb alternation, highlighting important developmental principles controlling the assembly of spinal motor circuits."	0
"32187550"	"miR-181a Modulation of ERK-MAPK Signaling Sustains DC-SIGN Expression and Limits Activation of Monocyte-Derived Dendritic Cells.DC-SIGN<sup>+</sup> monocyte-derived dendritic cells (mo-DCs) play important roles in bacterial infections and inflammatory diseases, but the factors regulating their differentiation and proinflammatory status remain poorly defined. Here, we identify a microRNA, miR-181a, and a molecular mechanism that simultaneously regulate the acquisition of DC-SIGN expression and the activation state of DC-SIGN<sup>+</sup> mo-DCs. Specifically, we show that miR-181a promotes DC-SIGN expression during terminal mo-DC differentiation and limits its sensitivity and responsiveness to TLR triggering and CD40 ligation. Mechanistically, miR-181a sustains ERK-MAPK signaling in mo-DCs, thereby enabling the maintenance of high levels of DC-SIGN and a high activation threshold. Low miR-181a levels during mo-DC differentiation, induced by inflammatory signals, do not support the high phospho-ERK signal transduction required for DC-SIGN<sup>hi</sup> mo-DCs and lead to development of proinflammatory DC-SIGN<sup>lo/-</sup> mo-DCs. Collectively, our study demonstrates that high DC-SIGN expression levels and a high activation threshold in mo-DCs are linked and simultaneously maintained by miR-181a."	1
"32868900"	"The primary cilium and lipophagy translate mechanical forces to direct metabolic adaptation of kidney epithelial cells.Organs and cells must adapt to shear stress induced by biological fluids, but how fluid flow contributes to the execution of specific cell programs is poorly understood. Here we show that shear stress favours mitochondrial biogenesis and metabolic reprogramming to ensure energy production and cellular adaptation in kidney epithelial cells. Shear stress stimulates lipophagy, contributing to the production of fatty acids that provide mitochondrial substrates to generate ATP through β-oxidation. This flow-induced process is dependent on the primary cilia located on the apical side of epithelial cells. The interplay between fluid flow and lipid metabolism was confirmed in vivo using a unilateral ureteral obstruction mouse model. Finally, primary cilium-dependent lipophagy and mitochondrial biogenesis are required to support energy-consuming cellular processes such as glucose reabsorption, gluconeogenesis and cytoskeletal remodelling. Our findings demonstrate how primary cilia and autophagy are involved in the translation of mechanical forces into metabolic adaptation."	0
"31178354"	"Stresses that Raise Np<sub>4</sub>A Levels Induce Protective Nucleoside Tetraphosphate Capping of Bacterial RNA.Present in all realms of life, dinucleoside tetraphosphates (Np<sub>4</sub>Ns) are generally considered signaling molecules. However, only a single pathway for Np<sub>4</sub>N signaling has been delineated in eukaryotes, and no receptor that mediates the influence of Np<sub>4</sub>Ns has ever been identified in bacteria. Here we show that, under disulfide stress conditions that elevate cellular Np<sub>4</sub>N concentrations, diverse Escherichia coli mRNAs and sRNAs acquire a cognate Np<sub>4</sub> cap. Purified E. coli RNA polymerase and lysyl-tRNA synthetase are both capable of adding such 5' caps. Cap removal by either of two pyrophosphatases, ApaH or RppH, triggers rapid RNA degradation in E. coli. ApaH, the predominant decapping enzyme, functions as both a sensor and an effector of disulfide stress, which inactivates it. These findings suggest that the physiological changes attributed to elevated Np<sub>4</sub>N concentrations in bacteria may result from widespread Np<sub>4</sub> capping, leading to altered RNA stability and consequent changes in gene expression."	0
"32160550"	"Local Resting Ca<sup>2+</sup> Controls the Scale of Astroglial Ca<sup>2+</sup> Signals.Astroglia regulate neurovascular coupling while engaging in signal exchange with neurons. The underlying cellular machinery is thought to rely on astrocytic Ca<sup>2+</sup> signals, but what controls their amplitude and waveform is poorly understood. Here, we employ time-resolved two-photon excitation fluorescence imaging in acute hippocampal slices and in cortex in vivo to find that resting [Ca<sup>2+</sup>] predicts the scale (amplitude) and the maximum (peak) of astroglial Ca<sup>2+</sup> elevations. We bidirectionally manipulate resting [Ca<sup>2+</sup>] by uncaging intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> or Ca<sup>2+</sup> buffers and use ratiometric imaging of a genetically encoded Ca<sup>2+</sup> indicator to establish that alterations in resting [Ca<sup>2+</sup>] change co-directionally the peak level and anti-directionally the amplitude of local Ca<sup>2+</sup> transients. This relationship holds for spontaneous and for induced (for instance by locomotion) Ca<sup>2+</sup> signals. Our findings uncover a basic generic rule of Ca<sup>2+</sup> signal formation in astrocytes, thus also associating the resting Ca<sup>2+</sup> level with the physiological ""excitability"" state of astroglia."	0
"31256989"	"lncRNA-Induced Spread of Polycomb Controlled by Genome Architecture, RNA Abundance, and CpG Island DNA.Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) cause Polycomb repressive complexes (PRCs) to spread over broad regions of the mammalian genome. We report that in mouse trophoblast stem cells, the Airn and Kcnq1ot1 lncRNAs induce PRC-dependent chromatin modifications over multi-megabase domains. Throughout the Airn-targeted domain, the extent of PRC-dependent modification correlated with intra-nuclear distance to the Airn locus, preexisting genome architecture, and the abundance of Airn itself. Specific CpG islands (CGIs) displayed characteristics indicating that they nucleate the spread of PRCs upon exposure to Airn. Chromatin environments surrounding Xist, Airn, and Kcnq1ot1 suggest common mechanisms of PRC engagement and spreading. Our data indicate that lncRNA potency can be tightly linked to lncRNA abundance and that within lncRNA-targeted domains, PRCs are recruited to CGIs via lncRNA-independent mechanisms. We propose that CGIs that autonomously recruit PRCs interact with lncRNAs and their associated proteins through three-dimensional space to nucleate the spread of PRCs in lncRNA-targeted domains."	0
"32320657"	"Profiling of Small Ribosomal Subunits Reveals Modes and Regulation of Translation Initiation.Translation initiation is often attributed as the rate-determining step of eukaryotic protein synthesis and key to gene expression control. Despite this centrality, the series of steps involved in this process is poorly understood. Here, we capture the transcriptome-wide occupancy of ribosomes across all stages of translation initiation, enabling us to characterize the transcriptome-wide dynamics of ribosome recruitment to mRNAs, scanning across 5' UTRs and stop codon recognition, in a higher eukaryote. We provide mechanistic evidence for ribosomes attaching to the mRNA by threading the mRNA through the small subunit. Moreover, we identify features that regulate the recruitment and processivity of scanning ribosomes and redefine optimal initiation contexts. Our approach enables deconvoluting translation initiation into separate stages and identifying regulators at each step."	0
"31027879"	"Coordinated Conformational Processing of the Tumor Suppressor Protein p53 by the Hsp70 and Hsp90 Chaperone Machineries.p53, the guardian of the genome, requires chaperoning by Hsp70 and Hsp90. However, how the two chaperone machineries affect p53 conformation and regulate its function remains elusive. We found that Hsp70, together with Hsp40, unfolds p53 in an ATP-dependent reaction. This unfolded state of p53 is susceptible to aggregation after release induced by the nucleotide exchange factor Bag-1. However, when Hsp90 and the adaptor protein Hop are present, p53 is transferred from Hsp70 to Hsp90, allowing restoration of the native state upon ATP hydrolysis. Our results suggest that the p53 conformation is constantly remodeled by the two major chaperone machineries. This connects p53 activity to stress, and the levels of free molecular chaperones are important factors regulating p53 activity. Together, our findings reveal an intricate interplay and cooperation of Hsp70 and Hsp90 in regulating the conformation of a client."	1
"31492634"	"Mechanism of DNA End Sensing and Processing by the Mre11-Rad50 Complex.DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) threaten genome stability throughout life and are linked to tumorigenesis in humans. To initiate DSB repair by end joining or homologous recombination, the Mre11-nuclease Rad50-ATPase complex detects and processes diverse and obstructed DNA ends, but a structural mechanism is still lacking. Here we report cryo-EM structures of the E. coli Mre11-Rad50 homolog SbcCD in resting and DNA-bound cutting states. In the resting state, Mre11's nuclease is blocked by ATP-Rad50, and the Rad50 coiled coils appear flexible. Upon DNA binding, the two coiled coils zip up into a rod and, together with the Rad50 nucleotide-binding domains, form a clamp around dsDNA. Mre11 moves to the side of Rad50, binds the DNA end, and assembles a DNA cutting channel for the nuclease reactions. The structures reveal how Mre11-Rad50 can detect and process diverse DNA ends and uncover a clamping and gating function for the coiled coils."	0
"32640220"	"WRNIP1 Is Recruited to DNA Interstrand Crosslinks and Promotes Repair.The Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway repairs DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs). Many FA proteins are recruited to ICLs in a timely fashion so that coordinated repair can occur. However, the mechanism of this process is poorly understood. Here, we report the purification of a FANCD2-containing protein complex with multiple subunits, including WRNIP1. Using live-cell imaging, we show that WRNIP1 is recruited to ICLs quickly after their appearance, promoting repair. The observed recruitment facilitates subsequent recruitment of the FANCD2/FANCI complex. Depletion of WRNIP1 sensitizes cells to ICL-forming drugs. We find that ubiquitination of WRNIP1 and the activity of its UBZ domain are required to facilitate recruitment of FANCD2/FANCI and promote repair. Altogether, we describe a mechanism by which WRNIP1 is recruited rapidly to ICLs, resulting in chromatin loading of the FANCD2/FANCI complex in an unusual process entailing ubiquitination of WRNIP1 and the activity of its integral UBZ domain."	1
"32367046"	"In vitro capture and characterization of embryonic rosette-stage pluripotency between naive and primed states.Following implantation, the naive pluripotent epiblast of the mouse blastocyst generates a rosette, undergoes lumenogenesis and forms the primed pluripotent egg cylinder, which is able to generate the embryonic tissues. How pluripotency progression and morphogenesis are linked and whether intermediate pluripotent states exist remain controversial. We identify here a rosette pluripotent state defined by the co-expression of naive factors with the transcription factor OTX2. Downregulation of blastocyst WNT signals drives the transition into rosette pluripotency by inducing OTX2. The rosette then activates MEK signals that induce lumenogenesis and drive progression to primed pluripotency. Consequently, combined WNT and MEK inhibition supports rosette-like stem cells, a self-renewing naive-primed intermediate. Rosette-like stem cells erase constitutive heterochromatin marks and display a primed chromatin landscape, with bivalently marked primed pluripotency genes. Nonetheless, WNT induces reversion to naive pluripotency. The rosette is therefore a reversible pluripotent intermediate whereby control over both pluripotency progression and morphogenesis pivots from WNT to MEK signals."	0
"32649883"	"Stress Induces Dynamic, Cytotoxicity-Antagonizing TDP-43 Nuclear Bodies via Paraspeckle LncRNA NEAT1-Mediated Liquid-Liquid Phase Separation.Despite the prominent role of TDP-43 in neurodegeneration, its physiological and pathological functions are not fully understood. Here, we report an unexpected role of TDP-43 in the formation of dynamic, reversible, liquid droplet-like nuclear bodies (NBs) in response to stress. Formation of NBs alleviates TDP-43-mediated cytotoxicity in mammalian cells and fly neurons. Super-resolution microscopy reveals distinct functions of the two RRMs in TDP-43 NB formation. TDP-43 NBs are partially colocalized with nuclear paraspeckles, whose scaffolding lncRNA NEAT1 is dramatically upregulated in stressed neurons. Moreover, increase of NEAT1 promotes TDP-43 liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) in vitro. Finally, we discover that the ALS-associated mutation D169G impairs the NEAT1-mediated TDP-43 LLPS and NB assembly, causing excessive cytoplasmic translocation of TDP-43 to form stress granules, which become phosphorylated TDP-43 cytoplasmic foci upon prolonged stress. Together, our findings suggest a stress-mitigating role and mechanism of TDP-43 NBs, whose dysfunction may be involved in ALS pathogenesis."	0
"32640241"	"Vav3 Mediates Pseudomonas aeruginosa Adhesion to the Cystic Fibrosis Airway Epithelium.Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa) represents the leading cause of airway infection in cystic fibrosis (CF). Early airways colonization can be explained by enhanced adhesion of Pa to the respiratory epithelium. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on fully differentiated primary cultures of airway epithelial cells from CF and non-CF donors predict that VAV3, β1 INTEGRIN, and FIBRONECTIN genes are significantly enriched in CF. Indeed, Vav3 is apically overexpressed in CF, associates with active β1 integrin luminally exposed, and increases fibronectin deposition. These luminal microdomains, rich in fibronectin and β1 integrin and regulated by Vav3, mediate the increased Pa adhesion to the CF epithelium. Interestingly, Vav3 inhibition normalizes the CF-dependent fibronectin and β1-integrin ectopic expression, improves the CF epithelial integrity, and prevents the enhanced Pa trapping to the CF epithelium. Through its capacity to promote a luminal complex with active β1 integrin and fibronectin that favors bacteria trapping, Vav3 may represent a new target in CF."	0
"32485148"	"ERK2 Phosphorylates PFAS to Mediate Posttranslational Control of De Novo Purine Synthesis.The RAS-ERK/MAPK (RAS-extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway integrates growth-promoting signals to stimulate cell growth and proliferation, at least in part, through alterations in metabolic gene expression. However, examples of direct and rapid regulation of the metabolic pathways by the RAS-ERK pathway remain elusive. We find that physiological and oncogenic ERK signaling activation leads to acute metabolic flux stimulation through the de novo purine synthesis pathway, thereby increasing building block availability for RNA and DNA synthesis, which is required for cell growth and proliferation. We demonstrate that ERK2, but not ERK1, phosphorylates the purine synthesis enzyme PFAS (phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase) at T619 in cells to stimulate de novo purine synthesis. The expression of nonphosphorylatable PFAS (T619A) decreases purine synthesis, RAS-dependent cancer cell-colony formation, and tumor growth. Thus, ERK2-mediated PFAS phosphorylation facilitates the increase in nucleic acid synthesis required for anabolic cell growth and proliferation."	1
"32846130"	"BIRC2 Expression Impairs Anti-Cancer Immunity and Immunotherapy Efficacy.Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has led to therapeutic responses in some cancer patients for whom no effective treatment previously existed. ICB acts on T lymphocytes and other immune cells that are inactivated due to checkpoint signals that inhibit their infiltration and function within tumors. But for more than 80% of patients, immunotherapy has not been effective. Here, we demonstrate a cancer-cell-intrinsic mechanism of immune evasion and resistance to ICB mediated by baculoviral IAP repeat-containing 2 (BIRC2). Knockdown of BIRC2 expression in mouse melanoma or breast cancer cells increases expression of the chemokine CXCL9 and impairs tumor growth by increasing the number of intratumoral activated CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells. Administration of anti-CXCL9 neutralizing antibody inhibits the recruitment of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and natural killer cells to BIRC2-deficient tumors. Most importantly, BIRC2 deficiency dramatically increases the sensitivity of mouse melanoma and breast tumors to anti-CTLA4 and/or anti-PD1 ICB."	1
"32320654"	"Cellular Importin-α3 Expression Dynamics in the Lung Regulate Antiviral Response Pathways against Influenza A Virus Infection.Importin-α adaptor proteins orchestrate dynamic nuclear transport processes involved in cellular homeostasis. Here, we show that importin-α3, one of the main NF-κB transporters, is the most abundantly expressed classical nuclear transport factor in the mammalian respiratory tract. Importin-α3 promoter activity is regulated by TNF-α-induced NF-κB in a concentration-dependent manner. High-level TNF-α-inducing highly pathogenic avian influenza A viruses (HPAIVs) isolated from fatal human cases harboring human-type polymerase signatures (PB2 627K, 701N) significantly downregulate importin-α3 mRNA expression in primary lung cells. Importin-α3 depletion is restored upon back-mutating the HPAIV polymerase into an avian-type signature (PB2 627E, 701D) that can no longer induce high TNF-α levels. Importin-α3-deficient mice show reduced NF-κB-activated antiviral gene expression and increased influenza lethality. Thus, importin-α3 plays a key role in antiviral immunity against influenza. Lifting the bottleneck in importin-α3 availability in the lung might provide a new strategy to combat respiratory virus infections."	1
"32571873"	"Runt-related transcription factor 1 is required for murine osteoblast differentiation and bone formation.Despite years of research investigating osteoblast differentiation, the mechanisms by which transcription factors regulate osteoblast maturation, bone formation, and bone homeostasis is still unclear. It has been reported that runt-related transcription factor 1 (<i>Runx1</i>) is expressed in osteoblast progenitors, pre-osteoblasts, and mature osteoblasts; yet, surprisingly, the exact function of RUNX1 in osteoblast maturation and bone formation remains unknown. Here, we generated and characterized a pre-osteoblast and differentiating chondrocyte-specific <i>Runx1</i> conditional knockout mouse model to study RUNX1's function in bone formation. <i>Runx1</i> ablation in osteoblast precursors and differentiating chondrocytes via osterix-Cre (Osx-Cre) resulted in an osteoporotic phenotype and decreased bone density in the long bones and skulls of <i>Runx1<sup>f/f</sup>Osx-Cre</i> mice compared with <i>Runx1<sup>f/f</sup></i> and <i>Osx-Cre</i> mice. RUNX1 deficiency reduced the expression of SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), Indian hedgehog signaling molecule (IHH), Patched (PTC), and cyclin D1 in the growth plate, and also reduced the expression of osteocalcin (OCN), OSX, activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4), and RUNX2 in osteoblasts. ChIP assays and promoter activity mapping revealed that RUNX1 directly associates with the <i>Runx2</i> gene promoter and up-regulates <i>Runx2</i> expression. Furthermore, the ChIP data also showed that RUNX1 associates with the <i>Ocn</i> promoter. In conclusion, RUNX1 up-regulates the expression of <i>Runx2</i> and multiple bone-specific genes, and plays an indispensable role in bone formation and homeostasis in both trabecular and cortical bone. We propose that stimulating <i>Runx1</i> activity may be useful in therapeutic approaches for managing some bone diseases such as osteoporosis."	1
"30975459"	"Introducing a Spectrum of Long-Range Genomic Deletions in Human Embryonic Stem Cells Using Type I CRISPR-Cas.CRISPR-Cas systems enable microbial adaptive immunity and provide eukaryotic genome editing tools. These tools employ a single effector enzyme of type II or V CRISPR to generate RNA-guided, precise genome breaks. Here we demonstrate the feasibility of using type I CRISPR-Cas to effectively introduce a spectrum of long-range chromosomal deletions with a single RNA guide in human embryonic stem cells and HAP1 cells. Type I CRISPR systems rely on the multi-subunit ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex Cascade to identify DNA targets and on the helicase-nuclease enzyme Cas3 to degrade DNA processively. With RNP delivery of T. fusca Cascade and Cas3, we obtained 13%-60% editing efficiency. Long-range PCR-based and high-throughput-sequencing-based lesion analyses reveal that a variety of deletions, ranging from a few hundred base pairs to 100 kilobases, are created upstream of the target site. These results highlight the potential utility of type I CRISPR-Cas for long-range genome manipulations and deletion screens in eukaryotes."	0
"32001511"	"HELLS and PRDM9 form a pioneer complex to open chromatin at meiotic recombination hot spots.Chromatin barriers prevent spurious interactions between regulatory elements and DNA-binding proteins. One such barrier, whose mechanism for overcoming is poorly understood, is access to recombination hot spots during meiosis. Here we show that the chromatin remodeler HELLS and DNA-binding protein PRDM9 function together to open chromatin at hot spots and provide access for the DNA double-strand break (DSB) machinery. Recombination hot spots are decorated by a unique combination of histone modifications not found at other regulatory elements. HELLS is recruited to hot spots by PRDM9 and is necessary for both histone modifications and DNA accessibility at hot spots. In male mice lacking HELLS, DSBs are retargeted to other sites of open chromatin, leading to germ cell death and sterility. Together, these data provide a model for hot spot activation in which HELLS and PRDM9 form a pioneer complex to create a unique epigenomic environment of open chromatin, permitting correct placement and repair of DSBs."	1
"32814054"	"Mn<sup>2+</sup> Directly Activates cGAS and Structural Analysis Suggests Mn<sup>2+</sup> Induces a Noncanonical Catalytic Synthesis of 2'3'-cGAMP.DNA binding allosterically activates the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP [cGAMP] synthase) to synthesize 2'3'-cGAMP, using Mg<sup>2+</sup> as the metal cofactor that catalyzes two nucleotidyl-transferring reactions. We previously found that Mn<sup>2+</sup> potentiates cGAS activation, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we report that Mn<sup>2+</sup> directly activates cGAS. Structural analysis reveals that Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS undergoes globally similar conformational changes to DNA-activated cGAS but forms a unique η1 helix to widen the catalytic pocket, allowing substrate entry and cGAMP synthesis. Strikingly, in Mn<sup>2+</sup>-activated cGAS, the linear intermediates pppGpG and pGpA take an inverted orientation in the active pocket, suggesting a noncanonical but accelerated cGAMP cyclization without substrate flip-over. Moreover, unlike the octahedral coordination around Mg<sup>2+</sup>, the two catalytic Mn<sup>2+</sup> are coordinated by triphosphate moiety of the inverted substrate, independent of the catalytic triad residues. Our findings thus uncover Mn<sup>2+</sup> as a cGAS activator that initiates noncanonical 2'3'-cGAMP synthesis."	1
"32354835"	"Molecular structures and mechanisms of DNA break processing in mouse meiosis.Exonucleolytic resection, critical to repair double-strand breaks (DSBs) by recombination, is not well understood, particularly in mammalian meiosis. Here, we define structures of resected DSBs in mouse spermatocytes genome-wide at nucleotide resolution. Resection tracts averaged 1100 nt, but with substantial fine-scale heterogeneity at individual hot spots. Surprisingly, EXO1 is not the major 5' → 3' exonuclease, but the DSB-responsive kinase ATM proved a key regulator of both initiation and extension of resection. In wild type, apparent intermolecular recombination intermediates clustered near to but offset from DSB positions, consistent with joint molecules with incompletely invaded 3' ends. Finally, we provide evidence for PRDM9-dependent chromatin remodeling leading to increased accessibility at recombination sites. Our findings give insight into the mechanisms of DSB processing and repair in meiotic chromatin."	0
"32763910"	"miR760 regulates ATXN1 levels via interaction with its 5' untranslated region.Identifying modifiers of dosage-sensitive genes involved in neurodegenerative disorders is imperative to discover novel genetic risk factors and potential therapeutic entry points. In this study, we focus on Ataxin-1 (<i>ATXN1</i>), a dosage-sensitive gene involved in the neurodegenerative disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). While the precise maintenance of ATXN1 levels is essential to prevent disease, the mechanisms that regulate <i>ATXN1</i> expression remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that <i>ATXN1</i>'s unusually long 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) negatively regulates its expression via posttranscriptional mechanisms. Based on recent reports that microRNAs (miRNAs) can interact with both 3' and 5' UTRs to regulate their target genes, we identify miR760 as a negative regulator that binds to a conserved site in <i>ATXN1</i>'s 5' UTR to induce RNA degradation and translational inhibition. We found that delivery of Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-expressing miR760 in the cerebellum reduces ATXN1 levels in vivo and mitigates motor coordination deficits in a mouse model of SCA1. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of ATXN1 levels, present additional evidence for miRNA-mediated gene regulation via 5' UTR binding, and raise the possibility that noncoding mutations in the <i>ATXN1</i> locus may act as risk factors for yet to be discovered progressive ataxias."	1
"31914389"	"STCH4/REIL2 Confers Cold Stress Tolerance in Arabidopsis by Promoting rRNA Processing and CBF Protein Translation.Plants respond to cold stress by inducing the expression of transcription factors that regulate downstream genes to confer tolerance to freezing. We screened an Arabidopsis transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion library and identified a cold-hypersensitive mutant, which we named stch4 (sensitive to chilling 4). STCH4/REIL2 encodes a ribosomal biogenesis factor that is upregulated upon cold stress. Overexpression of STCH4 confers chilling and freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis. The stch4 mutation reduces CBF protein levels and thus delayed the induction of C-repeat-binding factor (CBF) regulon genes. Ribosomal RNA processing is reduced in stch4 mutants, especially under cold stress. STCH4 associates with multiple ribosomal proteins, and these interactions are modulated by cold stress. These results suggest that the ribosome is a regulatory node for cold stress responses and that STCH4 promotes an altered ribosomal composition and functions in low temperatures to facilitate the translation of proteins important for plant growth and survival under cold stress."	1
"32097603"	"Organization of the Escherichia coli Chromosome by a MukBEF Axial Core.Structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) complexes organize chromosomes ubiquitously, thereby contributing to their faithful segregation. We demonstrate that under conditions of increased chromosome occupancy of the Escherichia coli SMC complex, MukBEF, the chromosome is organized as a series of loops around a thin (<130 nm) MukBEF axial core, whose length is ∼1,100 times shorter than the chromosomal DNA. The linear order of chromosomal loci is maintained in the axial cores, whose formation requires MukBEF ATP hydrolysis. Axial core structure in non-replicating chromosomes is predominantly linear (1 μm) but becomes circular (1.5 μm) in the absence of MatP because of its failure to displace MukBEF from the 800 kbp replication termination region (ter). Displacement of MukBEF from ter by MatP in wild-type cells directs MukBEF colocalization with the replication origin. We conclude that MukBEF individualizes and compacts the chromosome lengthwise, demonstrating a chromosome organization mechanism similar to condensin in mitotic chromosome formation."	0
"32187538"	"Mice Carrying ALS Mutant TDP-43, but Not Mutant FUS, Display In Vivo Defects in Axonal Transport of Signaling Endosomes.Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal, progressive neurodegenerative disease resulting from a complex interplay between genetics and environment. Impairments in axonal transport have been identified in several ALS models, but in vivo evidence remains limited, thus their pathogenetic importance remains to be fully resolved. We therefore analyzed the in vivo dynamics of retrogradely transported, neurotrophin-containing signaling endosomes in nerve axons of two ALS mouse models with mutations in the RNA processing genes TARDBP and FUS. TDP-43<sup>M337V</sup> mice, which show neuromuscular pathology without motor neuron loss, display axonal transport perturbations manifesting between 1.5 and 3 months and preceding symptom onset. Contrastingly, despite 20% motor neuron loss, transport remained largely unaffected in Fus<sup>Δ14/+</sup> mice. Deficiencies in retrograde axonal transport of signaling endosomes are therefore not shared by all ALS-linked genes, indicating that there are mechanistic distinctions in the pathogenesis of ALS caused by mutations in different RNA processing genes."	0
"32209475"	"Histone H4K20 Demethylation by Two hHR23 Proteins.Histone methyl groups can be removed by demethylases. Although LSD1 and JmjC domain-containing proteins have been identified as histone demethylases, enzymes for many histone methylation states or sites are still unknown. Here, we perform a screening of a cDNA library containing 2,500 nuclear proteins and identify hHR23A as a histone H4K20 demethylase. Overexpression of hHR23A reduces the levels of H4K20me1/2/3 in cells. In vitro, hHR23A specifically demethylates H4K20me1/2/3 and generates formaldehyde. The enzymatic activity requires Fe(II) and α-ketoglutarate as cofactors and the UBA domains of hHR23A. hHR23B, a protein homologous to hHR23A, also demethylates H4K20me1/2/3 in vitro and in vivo. We further demonstrate that hHR23A/B activate the transcription of coding genes by demethylating H4K20me1 and the transcription of repetitive elements by demethylating H4K20me3. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analyses demonstrate that an HxxxE motif in the UBA1 domain is crucial for iron binding and demethylase activity. Thus, we identify two hHR23 proteins as histone demethylases."	1
"32375043"	"Hexanucleotide Repeat Expansions in c9FTD/ALS and SCA36 Confer Selective Patterns of Neurodegeneration In Vivo.A G<sub>4</sub>C<sub>2</sub> hexanucleotide repeat expansion in an intron of C9orf72 is the most common cause of frontal temporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (c9FTD/ALS). A remarkably similar intronic TG<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> repeat expansion is associated with spinocerebellar ataxia 36 (SCA36). Both expansions are widely expressed, form RNA foci, and can undergo repeat-associated non-ATG (RAN) translation to form similar dipeptide repeat proteins (DPRs). Yet, these diseases result in the degeneration of distinct subsets of neurons. We show that the expression of these repeat expansions in mice is sufficient to recapitulate the unique features of each disease, including this selective neuronal vulnerability. Furthermore, only the G<sub>4</sub>C<sub>2</sub> repeat induces the formation of aberrant stress granules and pTDP-43 inclusions. Overall, our results demonstrate that the pathomechanisms responsible for each disease are intrinsic to the individual repeat sequence, highlighting the importance of sequence-specific RNA-mediated toxicity in each disorder."	0
"32726628"	"Dissecting Murine Muscle Stem Cell Aging through Regeneration Using Integrative Genomic Analysis.During aging, there is a progressive loss of volume and function in skeletal muscle that impacts mobility and quality of life. The repair of skeletal muscle is regulated by tissue-resident stem cells called satellite cells (or muscle stem cells [MuSCs]), but in aging, MuSCs decrease in numbers and regenerative capacity. The transcriptional networks and epigenetic changes that confer diminished regenerative function in MuSCs as a result of natural aging are only partially understood. Herein, we use an integrative genomics approach to profile MuSCs from young and aged animals before and after injury. Integration of these datasets reveals aging impacts multiple regulatory changes through significant differences in gene expression, metabolic flux, chromatin accessibility, and patterns of transcription factor (TF) binding activities. Collectively, these datasets facilitate a deeper understanding of the regulation tissue-resident stem cells use during aging and healing."	0
"32587091"	"The deubiquitinase USP7 uses a distinct ubiquitin-like domain to deubiquitinate NF-ĸB subunits.The transcription factor NF-ĸB is a master regulator of the innate immune response and plays a central role in inflammatory diseases by mediating the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Ubiquitination-triggered proteasomal degradation of DNA-bound NF-ĸB strongly limits the expression of its target genes. Conversely, USP7 (deubiquitinase ubiquitin-specific peptidase 7) opposes the activities of E3 ligases, stabilizes DNA-bound NF-ĸB, and thereby promotes NF-ĸB-mediated transcription. Using gene expression and synthetic peptide arrays on membrane support and overlay analyses, we found here that inhibiting USP7 increases NF-ĸB ubiquitination and degradation, prevents Toll-like receptor-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, and represents an effective strategy for controlling inflammation. However, the broad regulatory roles of USP7 in cell death pathways, chromatin, and DNA damage responses limit the use of catalytic inhibitors of USP7 as anti-inflammatory agents. To this end, we identified an NF-ĸB-binding site in USP7, ubiquitin-like domain 2, that selectively mediates interactions of USP7 with NF-ĸB subunits but is dispensable for interactions with other proteins. Moreover, we found that the amino acids <sup>757</sup>LDEL<sup>760</sup> in USP7 critically contribute to the interaction with the p65 subunit of NF-ĸB. Our findings support the notion that USP7 activity could be potentially targeted in a substrate-selective manner through the development of noncatalytic inhibitors of this deubiquitinase to abrogate NF-ĸB activity."	0
"30824372"	"P-TEFb Activation by RBM7 Shapes a Pro-survival Transcriptional Response to Genotoxic Stress.DNA damage response (DDR) involves dramatic transcriptional alterations, the mechanisms of which remain ill defined. Here, we show that following genotoxic stress, the RNA-binding motif protein 7 (RBM7) stimulates RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription and promotes cell viability by activating the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) via its release from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (7SK snRNP). This is mediated by activation of p38<sup>MAPK</sup>, which triggers enhanced binding of RBM7 with core subunits of 7SK snRNP. In turn, P-TEFb relocates to chromatin to induce transcription of short units, including key DDR genes and multiple classes of non-coding RNAs. Critically, interfering with the axis of RBM7 and P-TEFb provokes cellular hypersensitivity to DNA-damage-inducing agents due to activation of apoptosis. Our work uncovers the importance of stress-dependent stimulation of Pol II pause release, which enables a pro-survival transcriptional response that is crucial for cell fate upon genotoxic insult."	1
"31995759"	"PRMT1 Is Recruited via DNA-PK to Chromatin Where It Sustains the Senescence-Associated Secretory Phenotype in Response to Cisplatin.Protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) is overexpressed in various human cancers and linked to poor response to chemotherapy. Various PRMT1 inhibitors are currently under development; yet, we do not fully understand the mechanisms underpinning PRMT1 involvement in tumorigenesis and chemoresistance. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we identified PRMT1 as regulator of arginine methylation in ovarian cancer cells treated with cisplatin. We showed that DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) binds to and phosphorylates PRMT1 in response to cisplatin, inducing its chromatin recruitment and redirecting its enzymatic activity toward Arg3 of histone H4 (H4R3). On chromatin, the DNA-PK/PRMT1 axis induces senescence-associated secretory phenotype through H4R3me2a deposition at pro-inflammatory gene promoters. Finally, PRMT1 inhibition reduces the clonogenic growth of cancer cells exposed to low doses of cisplatin, sensitizing them to apoptosis. While unravelling the role of PRMT1 in response to genotoxic agents, our findings indicate the possibility of targeting PRMT1 to overcome chemoresistance in cancer."	1
"32669362"	"Ubiquitin ligase SMURF2 enhances epidermal growth factor receptor stability and tyrosine-kinase inhibitor resistance.The discovery of activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations spurred the use of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as erlotinib, as the first-line treatment of lung cancers. We previously reported that differential degradation of TKI-sensitive (<i>e.g.</i> L858R) and resistant (T790M) EGFR mutants upon erlotinib treatment correlates with drug sensitivity. We also reported that SMAD ubiquitination regulatory factor 2 (SMURF2) ligase activity is important in stabilizing EGFR. However, the molecular mechanisms involved remain unclear. Here, using <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> ubiquitination assays, MS, and superresolution microscopy, we show SMURF2-EGFR functional interaction is important for EGFR stability and response to TKI. We demonstrate that L858R/T790M EGFR is preferentially stabilized by SMURF2-UBCH5 (an E3-E2)-mediated polyubiquitination. We identified four lysine residues as the sites of ubiquitination and showed that replacement of one of them with acetylation-mimicking glutamine increases the sensitivity of mutant EGFR to erlotinib-induced degradation. We show that SMURF2 extends membrane retention of EGF-bound EGFR, whereas <i>SMURF2</i> knockdown increases receptor sorting to lysosomes. In lung cancer cell lines, SMURF2 overexpression increased EGFR levels, improving TKI tolerance, whereas <i>SMURF2</i> knockdown decreased EGFR steady-state levels and sensitized lung cancer cells. Overall, we propose that SMURF2-mediated polyubiquitination of L858R/T790M EGFR competes with acetylation-mediated receptor internalization that correlates with enhanced receptor stability; therefore, disruption of the E3-E2 complex may be an attractive target to overcome TKI resistance."	1
"32553167"	"STING Gain-of-Function Disrupts Lymph Node Organogenesis and Innate Lymphoid Cell Development in Mice.STING gain-of-function causes autoimmunity and immunodeficiency in mice and STING-associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy (SAVI) in humans. Here, we report that STING gain-of-function in mice prevents development of lymph nodes and Peyer's patches. We show that the absence of secondary lymphoid organs is associated with diminished numbers of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), including lymphoid tissue inducer (LTi) cells. Although wild-type (WT) α4β7<sup>+</sup> progenitors differentiate efficiently into LTi cells, STING gain-of-function progenitors do not. Furthermore, STING gain-of-function impairs development of all types of ILCs. Patients with STING gain-of-function mutations have fewer ILCs, although they still have lymph nodes. In mice, expression of the STING mutant in RORγT-positive lineages prevents development of lymph nodes and reduces numbers of LTi cells. RORγT lineage-specific expression of STING gain-of-function also causes lung disease. Since RORγT is expressed exclusively in LTi cells during fetal development, our findings suggest that STING gain-of-function prevents lymph node organogenesis by reducing LTi cell numbers in mice."	0
"31704183"	"Tunability of DNA Polymerase Stability during Eukaryotic DNA Replication.Structural and biochemical studies have revealed the basic principles of how the replisome duplicates genomic DNA, but little is known about its dynamics during DNA replication. We reconstitute the 34 proteins needed to form the S. cerevisiae replisome and show how changing local concentrations of the key DNA polymerases tunes the ability of the complex to efficiently recycle these proteins or to dynamically exchange them. Particularly, we demonstrate redundancy of the Pol α-primase DNA polymerase activity in replication and show that Pol α-primase and the lagging-strand Pol δ can be re-used within the replisome to support the synthesis of large numbers of Okazaki fragments. This unexpected malleability of the replisome might allow it to deal with barriers and resource challenges during replication of large genomes."	0
"32616520"	"Identification of a localized nonsense-mediated decay pathway at the endoplasmic reticulum.Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a translation-dependent RNA quality control mechanism that occurs in the cytoplasm. However, it is unknown how NMD regulates the stability of RNAs translated at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here, we identify a localized NMD pathway dedicated to ER-translated mRNAs. We previously identified NBAS, a component of the Syntaxin 18 complex involved in Golgi-to-ER trafficking, as a novel NMD factor. Furthermore, we show that NBAS fulfills an independent function in NMD. This ER-NMD pathway requires the interaction of NBAS with the core NMD factor UPF1, which is partially localized at the ER in the proximity of the translocon. NBAS and UPF1 coregulate the stability of ER-associated transcripts, in particular those associated with the cellular stress response. We propose a model where NBAS recruits UPF1 to the membrane of the ER and activates an ER-dedicated NMD pathway, thus providing an ER-protective function by ensuring quality control of ER-translated mRNAs."	1
"32209476"	"OXR1A, a Coactivator of PRMT5 Regulating Histone Arginine Methylation.Oxidation resistance gene 1 (OXR1) protects cells against oxidative stress. We find that male mice with brain-specific isoform A knockout (Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup>) develop fatty liver. RNA sequencing of male Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> liver indicates decreased growth hormone (GH) signaling, which is known to affect liver metabolism. Indeed, Gh expression is reduced in male mice Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary gland and in rat Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary adenoma cell-line GH3. Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> male mice show reduced fasting-blood GH levels. Pull-down and proximity ligation assays reveal that OXR1A is associated with arginine methyl transferase PRMT5. OXR1A-depleted GH3 cells show reduced symmetrical dimethylation of histone H3 arginine 2 (H3R2me2s), a product of PRMT5 catalyzed methylation, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) of H3R2me2s shows reduced Gh promoter enrichment. Finally, we demonstrate with purified proteins that OXR1A stimulates PRMT5/MEP50-catalyzed H3R2me2s. Our data suggest that OXR1A is a coactivator of PRMT5, regulating histone arginine methylation and thereby GH production within the pituitary gland."	1
"31968254"	"Periostin Promotes Colorectal Tumorigenesis through Integrin-FAK-Src Pathway-Mediated YAP/TAZ Activation.Periostin is a multifunctional extracellular matrix protein involved in various inflammatory diseases and tumor metastasis; however, evidence regarding whether and how periostin actively contributes to inflammation-associated tumorigenesis remains elusive. Here, we demonstrate that periostin deficiency significantly inhibits the occurrence of colorectal cancer in azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium-treated mice and in Apc<sup>Min/+</sup> mice. Moreover, periostin deficiency attenuates the severity of colitis and reduces the proliferation of tumor cells. Mechanistically, stromal fibroblast-derived periostin activates FAK-Src kinases through integrin-mediated outside-in signaling, which results in the activation of YAP/TAZ and, subsequently, IL-6 expression in tumor cells. Conversely, IL-6 induces periostin expression in fibroblasts by activating STAT3, which ultimately facilitates colorectal tumor development. These findings provide the evidence that periostin promotes colorectal tumorigenesis, and identify periostin- and IL-6-mediated tumor-stroma interaction as a promising target for treating colitis-associated colorectal cancer."	1
"32381626"	"TEX15 associates with MILI and silences transposable elements in male germ cells.DNA methylation is a major silencing mechanism of transposable elements (TEs). Here we report that TEX15, a testis-specific protein, is required for TE silencing. TEX15 is expressed in embryonic germ cells and functions during genome-wide epigenetic reprogramming. The <i>Tex15</i> mutant exhibits DNA hypomethylation in TEs at a level similar to <i>Mili</i> and <i>Dnmt3c</i> but not <i>Miwi2</i> mutants. TEX15 is associated with MILI in testis. As loss of <i>Tex15</i> causes TE desilencing with intact piRNA production, our results identify TEX15 as a new essential epigenetic regulator that may function as a nuclear effector of MILI to silence TEs by DNA methylation."	1
"30642763"	"The RNA-Binding Protein PUM2 Impairs Mitochondrial Dynamics and Mitophagy During Aging.Little information is available about how post-transcriptional mechanisms regulate the aging process. Here, we show that the RNA-binding protein Pumilio2 (PUM2), which is a translation repressor, is induced upon aging and acts as a negative regulator of lifespan and mitochondrial homeostasis. Multi-omics and cross-species analyses of PUM2 function show that it inhibits the translation of the mRNA encoding for the mitochondrial fission factor (Mff), thereby impairing mitochondrial fission and mitophagy. This mechanism is conserved in C. elegans by the PUM2 ortholog PUF-8. puf-8 knock-down in old nematodes and Pum2 CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout in the muscles of elderly mice enhances mitochondrial fission and mitophagy in both models, hence improving mitochondrial quality control and tissue homeostasis. Our data reveal how a PUM2-mediated layer of post-transcriptional regulation links altered Mff translation to mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy, thereby mediating age-related mitochondrial dysfunctions."	1
"32209477"	"Shifts in Ribosome Engagement Impact Key Gene Sets in Neurodevelopment and Ubiquitination in Rett Syndrome.Regulation of translation during human development is poorly understood, and its dysregulation is associated with Rett syndrome (RTT). To discover shifts in mRNA ribosomal engagement (RE) during human neurodevelopment, we use parallel translating ribosome affinity purification sequencing (TRAP-seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on control and RTT human induced pluripotent stem cells, neural progenitor cells, and cortical neurons. We find that 30% of transcribed genes are translationally regulated, including key gene sets (neurodevelopment, transcription and translation factors, and glycolysis). Approximately 35% of abundant intergenic long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are ribosome engaged. Neurons translate mRNAs more efficiently and have longer 3' UTRs, and RE correlates with elements for RNA-binding proteins. RTT neurons have reduced global translation and compromised mTOR signaling, and >2,100 genes are translationally dysregulated. NEDD4L E3-ubiquitin ligase is translationally impaired, ubiquitinated protein levels are reduced, and protein targets accumulate in RTT neurons. Overall, the dynamic translatome in neurodevelopment is disturbed in RTT and provides insight into altered ubiquitination that may have therapeutic implications."	0
"32497497"	"Single-Molecule Imaging of Telomerase RNA Reveals a Recruitment-Retention Model for Telomere Elongation.Extension of telomeres is a critical step in the immortalization of cancer cells. This complex reaction requires proper spatiotemporal coordination of telomerase and telomeres and remains poorly understood at the cellular level. To understand how cancer cells execute this process, we combine CRISPR genome editing and MS2 RNA tagging to image single molecules of telomerase RNA (hTR). Real-time dynamics and photoactivation experiments of hTR in Cajal bodies (CBs) reveal that hTERT controls the exit of hTR from CBs. Single-molecule tracking of hTR at telomeres shows that TPP1-mediated recruitment results in short telomere-telomerase scanning interactions, and then base pairing between hTR and telomere ssDNA promotes long interactions required for stable telomerase retention. Interestingly, POT1 OB-fold mutations that result in abnormally long telomeres in cancers act by enhancing this retention step. In summary, single-molecule imaging unveils the life cycle of telomerase RNA and provides a framework to reveal how cancer-associated mutations mechanistically drive defects in telomere homeostasis."	0
"32579925"	"Stabilization of Endothelial Receptor Arrays by a Polarized Spectrin Cytoskeleton Facilitates Rolling and Adhesion of Leukocytes.Multivalent complexes of endothelial adhesion receptors (e.g., selectins) engage leukocytes to orchestrate their migration to inflamed tissues. Proper anchorage and sufficient density (clustering) of endothelial receptors are required for efficient leukocyte capture and rolling. We demonstrate that a polarized spectrin network dictates the stability of the endothelial cytoskeleton, which is attached to the apical membrane, at least in part, by the abundant transmembrane protein CD44. Single-particle tracking revealed that CD44 undergoes prolonged periods of immobilization as it tethers to the cytoskeleton. The CD44-spectrin ""picket fence"" alters the behavior of bystander molecules-notably, selectins-curtailing their mobility, inducing their apical accumulation, and favoring their clustering within caveolae. Accordingly, depletion of either spectrin or CD44 virtually eliminated leukocyte rolling and adhesion to the endothelium. Our results indicate that a unique spectrin-based apical cytoskeleton tethered to transmembrane pickets-notably, CD44-is essential for proper extravasation of leukocytes in response to inflammation."	0
"31402097"	"Osh Proteins Control Nanoscale Lipid Organization Necessary for PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> Synthesis.The plasma membrane (PM) is composed of a complex lipid mixture that forms heterogeneous membrane environments. Yet, how small-scale lipid organization controls physiological events at the PM remains largely unknown. Here, we show that ORP-related Osh lipid exchange proteins are critical for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub>], a key regulator of dynamic events at the PM. In real-time assays, we find that unsaturated phosphatidylserine (PS) and sterols, both Osh protein ligands, synergistically stimulate phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) activity. Biophysical FRET analyses suggest an unconventional co-distribution of unsaturated PS and phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) species in sterol-containing membrane bilayers. Moreover, using in vivo imaging approaches and molecular dynamics simulations, we show that Osh protein-mediated unsaturated PI4P and PS membrane lipid organization is sensed by the PIP5K specificity loop. Thus, ORP family members create a nanoscale membrane lipid environment that drives PIP5K activity and PI(4,5)P<sub>2</sub> synthesis that ultimately controls global PM organization and dynamics."	1
"31995760"	"Domain Model Explains Propagation Dynamics and Stability of Histone H3K27 and H3K36 Methylation Landscapes.Chromatin states must be maintained during cell proliferation to uphold cellular identity and genome integrity. Inheritance of histone modifications is central in this process. However, the histone modification landscape is challenged by incorporation of new unmodified histones during each cell cycle, and the principles governing heritability remain unclear. We take a quantitative computational modeling approach to describe propagation of histone H3K27 and H3K36 methylation states. We measure combinatorial H3K27 and H3K36 methylation patterns by quantitative mass spectrometry on subsequent generations of histones. Using model comparison, we reject active global demethylation and invoke the existence of domains defined by distinct methylation endpoints. We find that H3K27me3 on pre-existing histones stimulates the rate of de novo H3K27me3 establishment, supporting a read-write mechanism in timely chromatin restoration. Finally, we provide a detailed quantitative picture of the mutual antagonism between H3K27 and H3K36 methylation and propose that it stabilizes epigenetic states across cell division."	0
"32587089"	"Ubiquitination of interleukin-1α is associated with increased pro-inflammatory polarization of murine macrophages deficient in the E3 ligase ITCH.Macrophages play critical roles in homeostasis and inflammation. Macrophage polarization to either a pro-inflammatory or anti-inflammatory status is controlled by activating inflammatory signaling pathways. Ubiquitination is a posttranslational modification that regulates these inflammatory signaling pathways. However, the influence of protein ubiquitination on macrophage polarization has not been well studied. We hypothesized that the ubiquitination status of key proteins in inflammatory pathways contributes to macrophage polarization, which is regulated by itchy E3 ubiquitin ligase (ITCH), a negative regulator of inflammation. Using ubiquitin proteomics, we found that ubiquitination profiles are different among polarized murine macrophage subsets. Interestingly, interleukin-1α (IL-1α), an important pro-inflammatory mediator, was specifically ubiquitinated in lipopolysaccharide-induced pro-inflammatory macrophages, which was enhanced in ITCH-deficient macrophages. The ITCH-deficient macrophages had increased levels of the mature form of IL-1α and exhibited pro-inflammatory polarization, and reduced deubiquitination of IL-1α protein. Finally, IL-1α neutralization attenuated pro-inflammatory polarization of the ITCH-deficient macrophages. In conclusion, ubiquitination of IL-1α is associated with increased pro-inflammatory polarization of macrophages deficient in the E3 ligase ITCH."	0
"32075758"	"A Highly Conserved Circular RNA Is Required to Keep Neural Cells in a Progenitor State in the Mammalian Brain.circSLC45A4 is the main RNA splice isoform produced from its genetic locus and one of the highest expressed circRNAs in the developing human frontal cortex. Knockdown of this highly conserved circRNA in a human neuroblastoma cell line is sufficient to induce spontaneous neuronal differentiation, measurable by increased expression of neuronal marker genes. Depletion of circSlc45a4 in the developing mouse cortex causes a significant reduction of the basal progenitor pool and increases the expression of neurogenic regulators. Furthermore, knockdown of circSlc45a4a induces a significant depletion of cells in the cortical plate. In addition, deconvolution of the bulk RNA-seq data with the help of single-cell RNA-seq data validates the depletion of basal progenitors and reveals an increase in Cajal-Retzius cells. In summary, we present a detailed study of a highly conserved circular RNA that is necessary to maintain the pool of neural progenitors in vitro and in vivo."	0
"32937142"	"Innate Lymphoid Cell Activation and Sustained Depletion in Blood and Tissue of Children Infected with HIV from Birth Despite Antiretroviral Therapy.Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are important for response to infection and for immune development in early life. HIV infection in adults depletes circulating ILCs, but the impact on children infected from birth remains unknown. We study vertically HIV-infected children from birth to adulthood and find severe and persistent depletion of all circulating ILCs that, unlike CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells, are not restored by long-term antiretroviral therapy unless initiated at birth. Remaining ILCs upregulate genes associated with cellular activation and metabolic perturbation. Unlike HIV-infected adults, ILCs are also profoundly depleted in tonsils of vertically infected children. Transcriptional profiling of remaining ILCs reveals ongoing cell-type-specific activity despite antiretroviral therapy. Collectively, these data suggest an important and ongoing role for ILCs in lymphoid tissue of HIV-infected children from birth, where persistent depletion and sustained transcriptional activity are likely to have long-term immune consequences that merit further investigation."	0
"31522989"	"A Complex of U1 snRNP with Cleavage and Polyadenylation Factors Controls Telescripting, Regulating mRNA Transcription in Human Cells.Full-length transcription in the majority of human genes depends on U1 snRNP (U1) to co-transcriptionally suppress transcription-terminating premature 3' end cleavage and polyadenylation (PCPA) from cryptic polyadenylation signals (PASs) in introns. However, the mechanism of this U1 activity, termed telescripting, is unknown. Here, we captured a complex, comprising U1 and CPA factors (U1-CPAFs), that binds intronic PASs and suppresses PCPA. U1-CPAFs are distinct from U1-spliceosomal complexes; they include CPA's three main subunits, CFIm, CPSF, and CstF; lack essential splicing factors; and associate with transcription elongation and mRNA export complexes. Telescripting requires U1:pre-mRNA base-pairing, which can be disrupted by U1 antisense oligonucleotide (U1 AMO), triggering PCPA. U1 AMO remodels U1-CPAFs, revealing changes, including recruitment of CPA-stimulating factors, that explain U1-CPAFs' switch from repressive to activated states. Our findings outline this U1 telescripting mechanism and demonstrate U1's unique role as central regulator of pre-mRNA processing and transcription."	0
"32561545"	"Human RTEL1 associates with Poldip3 to facilitate responses to replication stress and R-loop resolution.RTEL1 helicase is a component of DNA repair and telomere maintenance machineries. While RTEL1's role in DNA replication is emerging, how RTEL1 preserves genomic stability during replication remains elusive. Here we used a range of proteomic, biochemical, cell, and molecular biology and gene editing approaches to provide further insights into potential role(s) of RTEL1 in DNA replication and genome integrity maintenance. Our results from complementary human cell culture models established that RTEL1 and the Polδ subunit Poldip3 form a complex and are/function mutually dependent in chromatin binding after replication stress. Loss of RTEL1 and Poldip3 leads to marked R-loop accumulation that is confined to sites of active replication, enhances endogenous replication stress, and fuels ensuing genomic instability. The impact of depleting RTEL1 and Poldip3 is epistatic, consistent with our proposed concept of these two proteins operating in a shared pathway involved in DNA replication control under stress conditions. Overall, our data highlight a previously unsuspected role of RTEL1 and Poldip3 in R-loop suppression at genomic regions where transcription and replication intersect, with implications for human diseases including cancer."	1
"31914387"	"Differential Coupling of Adult-Born Granule Cells to Parvalbumin and Somatostatin Interneurons.A strong GABAergic tone imposes sparse levels of activity in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. This balance is challenged by the addition of new granule cells (GCs) with high excitability. How developing GCs integrate within local inhibitory networks remains unknown. We used optogenetics to study synaptogenesis between new GCs and GABAergic interneurons expressing parvalbumin (PV-INs) and somatostatin (SST-INs). PV-INs target the soma, and synapses become mature after 6 weeks. This transition is accelerated by exposure to an enriched environment. PV-INs exert efficient control of GC spiking and participate in both feedforward and feedback loops, a mechanism that would favor lateral inhibition and sparse coding. SST-INs target the dendrites, and synapses mature after 8 weeks. Outputs from GCs onto PV-INs develop faster than those onto SST-INs. Our results reveal a long-lasting transition wherein adult-born neurons remain poorly coupled to inhibition, which might enhance activity-dependent plasticity of input and output synapses."	0
"31901447"	"Lipid Droplet-Derived Monounsaturated Fatty Acids Traffic via PLIN5 to Allosterically Activate SIRT1.Lipid droplets (LDs) provide a reservoir for triacylglycerol storage and are a central hub for fatty acid trafficking and signaling in cells. Lipolysis promotes mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism via a SIRT1/PGC-1α/PPARα-dependent pathway through an unknown mechanism. Herein, we identify that monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) allosterically activate SIRT1 toward select peptide-substrates such as PGC-1α. MUFAs enhance PGC-1α/PPARα signaling and promote oxidative metabolism in cells and animal models in a SIRT1-dependent manner. Moreover, we characterize the LD protein perilipin 5 (PLIN5), which is known to enhance mitochondrial biogenesis and function, to be a fatty-acid-binding protein that preferentially binds LD-derived monounsaturated fatty acids and traffics them to the nucleus following cAMP/PKA-mediated lipolytic stimulation. Thus, these studies identify the first-known endogenous allosteric modulators of SIRT1 and characterize a LD-nuclear signaling axis that underlies the known metabolic benefits of MUFAs and PLIN5."	1
"32576660"	"The transcriptional repressor BCL11A promotes breast cancer metastasis.The phenotypes of each breast cancer subtype are defined by their transcriptomes. However, the transcription factors that regulate differential patterns of gene expression that contribute to specific disease outcomes are not well understood. Here, using gene silencing and overexpression approaches, RNA-Seq, and splicing analysis, we report that the transcription factor B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 11A (BCL11A) is highly expressed in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) and drives metastatic disease. Moreover, BCL11A promotes cancer cell invasion by suppressing the expression of muscleblind-like splicing regulator 1 (<i>MBNL1</i>), a splicing regulator that suppresses metastasis. This ultimately increases the levels of an alternatively spliced isoform of integrin-α6 (<i>ITGA6</i>), which is associated with worse patient outcomes. These results suggest that BCL11A sustains TNBC cell invasion and metastatic growth by repressing MBNL1-directed splicing of <i>ITGA6</i> Our findings also indicate that BCL11A lies at the interface of transcription and splicing and promotes aggressive TNBC phenotypes."	0
"32587343"	"Starve a cold, and perhaps a cancer."	0
"32783943"	"Acetylation Stabilizes Phosphoglycerate Dehydrogenase by Disrupting the Interaction of E3 Ligase RNF5 to Promote Breast Tumorigenesis.Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) is the first enzyme in the serine synthesis pathway in which it is also the rate-limiting enzyme. It is significantly upregulated in many cancers, especially breast cancer. However, the posttranslational mechanism of PHGDH upregulation in breast cancer is unknown. In this study, we find that RNF5, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is essential for the degradation of PHGDH protein. PHGDH is degraded by RNF5 to prevent the proliferation of breast cancer cells. The acetylation of PHGDH at K58 is able to disrupt the interaction of RNF5-PHGDH and promote the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Tip60 and SIRT2 regulate the reversible acetylation modification of PHGDH in response to glucose alteration. Moreover, PHGDH is significantly upregulated in samples of human breast cancer and is associated with decreased RNF5 expression. This implies a potential therapeutic target through the interference interaction of PHGDH-RNF5 to degrade PHGDH in breast cancer."	1
"32160558"	"Single-Cell Analysis of the Muscle Stem Cell Hierarchy Identifies Heterotypic Communication Signals Involved in Skeletal Muscle Regeneration.Muscle regeneration relies on the regulation of muscle stem cells (MuSCs) through paracrine signaling interactions. We analyzed muscle regeneration in mice using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and generated over 34,000 single-cell transcriptomes spanning four time-points. We identified 15 distinct cell types including heterogenous populations of muscle stem and progenitor cells. We resolved a hierarchical map of these myogenic cells by trajectory inference and observed stage-specific regulatory programs within this continuum. Through ligand-receptor interaction analysis, we identified over 100 candidate regeneration-associated paracrine communication pairs between MuSCs and non-myogenic cells. We show that myogenic stem/progenitor cells exhibit heterogeneous expression of multiple Syndecan proteins in cycling myogenic cells, suggesting that Syndecans may coordinate myogenic fate regulation. We performed ligand stimulation in vitro and confirmed that three paracrine factors (FGF2, TGFβ1, and RSPO3) regulate myogenic cell proliferation in a Syndecan-dependent manner. Our study provides a scRNA-seq reference resource to investigate cell communication interactions in muscle regeneration."	0
"32402284"	"A Non-structural 1 Protein G53D Substitution Attenuates a Clinically Tested Live Dengue Vaccine.The molecular basis of dengue virus (DENV) attenuation remains ambiguous and hampers a targeted approach to derive safe but nonetheless immunogenic live vaccine candidates. Here, we take advantage of DENV serotype 2 PDK53 vaccine strain, which recently and successfully completed a phase-3 clinical trial, to identify how this virus is attenuated compared to its wild-type parent, DENV2 16681. Site-directed mutagenesis on a 16681 infectious clone identifies a single G53D substitution in the non-structural 1 (NS1) protein that reduces 16681 infection and dissemination in both Aedes aegypti, as well as in mammalian cells to produce the characteristic phenotypes of PDK53. Mechanistically, NS1 G53D impairs the function of a known host factor, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident ribophorin 1 protein, to properly glycosylate NS1 and thus induce a host antiviral gene through ER stress responses. Our findings provide molecular insights on DENV attenuation on a clinically tested strain."	0
"32268101"	"Dysfunction of Persisting β Cells Is a Key Feature of Early Type 2 Diabetes Pathogenesis.Type 2 diabetes is characterized by peripheral insulin resistance and insufficient insulin release from pancreatic islet β cells. However, the role and sequence of β cell dysfunction and mass loss for reduced insulin levels in type 2 diabetes pathogenesis are unclear. Here, we exploit freshly explanted pancreas specimens from metabolically phenotyped surgical patients using an in situ tissue slice technology. This approach allows assessment of β cell volume and function within pancreas samples of metabolically stratified individuals. We show that, in tissue of pre-diabetic, impaired glucose-tolerant subjects, β cell volume is unchanged, but function significantly deteriorates, exhibiting increased basal release and loss of first-phase insulin secretion. In individuals with type 2 diabetes, function within the sustained β cell volume further declines. These results indicate that dysfunction of persisting β cells is a key factor in the early development and progression of type 2 diabetes, representing a major target for diabetes prevention and therapy."	0
"32320653"	"The Autophagy-Initiating Kinase ULK1 Controls RIPK1-Mediated Cell Death.Autophagy, apoptosis, and necroptosis are stress responses governing the ultimate fate of a cell. However, the crosstalk between these cellular stress responses is not entirely understood. Especially, it is not clear whether the autophagy-initiating kinase ULK1 and the cell-death-regulating kinase RIPK1 are involved in this potential crosstalk. Here, we identify RIPK1 as a substrate of ULK1. ULK1-dependent phosphorylation of RIPK1 reduces complex IIb/necrosome assembly and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced cell death, whereas deprivation of ULK1 enhances TNF-induced cell death. We observe that ULK1 phosphorylates multiple sites of RIPK1, but it appears that especially phosphorylation of S357 within the intermediate domain of RIPK1 mediates this cell-death-inhibiting effect. We propose that ULK1 is a regulator of RIPK1-mediated cell death."	1
"32521269"	"The Protein Arginine Methyltransferase PRMT8 and Substrate G3BP1 Control Rac1-PAK1 Signaling and Actin Cytoskeleton for Dendritic Spine Maturation.Excitatory synapses of neurons are located on dendritic spines. Spine maturation is essential for the stability of synapses and memory consolidation, and overproduction of the immature filopodia is associated with brain disorders. The structure and function of synapses can be modulated by protein post-translational modification (PTM). Arginine methylation is a major PTM that regulates chromatin structure, transcription, and splicing within the nucleus. Here we find that the protein arginine methyltransferase PRMT8 is present at neuronal synapses and its expression is upregulated in the hippocampus when dendritic spine maturation occurs. Depletion of PRMT8 leads to overabundance of filopodia and mis-localization of excitatory synapses. Mechanistically, PRMT8 promotes dendritic spine morphology through methylation of the dendritic RNA-binding protein G3BP1 and suppression of the Rac1-PAK1 signaling pathway to control synaptic actin dynamics. Our findings unravel arginine methylation as a crucial regulatory mechanism for actin cytoskeleton during synapse development."	1
"32075738"	"The Natural Metabolite 4-Cresol Improves Glucose Homeostasis and Enhances β-Cell Function.Exposure to natural metabolites contributes to the risk of cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs). Through metabolome profiling, we identify the inverse correlation between serum concentrations of 4-cresol and type 2 diabetes. The chronic administration of non-toxic doses of 4-cresol in complementary preclinical models of CMD reduces adiposity, glucose intolerance, and liver triglycerides, enhances insulin secretion in vivo, stimulates islet density and size, and pancreatic β-cell proliferation, and increases vascularization, suggesting activated islet enlargement. In vivo insulin sensitivity is not affected by 4-cresol. The incubation of mouse isolated islets with 4-cresol results in enhanced insulin secretion, insulin content, and β-cell proliferation of a magnitude similar to that induced by GLP-1. In both CMD models and isolated islets, 4-cresol is associated with the downregulated expression of the kinase DYRK1A, which may mediate its biological effects. Our findings identify 4-cresol as an effective regulator of β-cell function, which opens up perspectives for therapeutic applications in syndromes of insulin deficiency."	0
"31784359"	"Core Components of the Nuclear Pore Bind Distinct States of Chromatin and Contribute to Polycomb Repression.Interactions between the genome and the nuclear pore complex (NPC) have been implicated in multiple gene regulatory processes, but the underlying logic of these interactions remains poorly defined. Here, we report high-resolution chromatin binding maps of two core components of the NPC, Nup107 and Nup93, in Drosophila cells. Our investigation uncovered differential binding of these NPC subunits, where Nup107 preferentially targets active genes while Nup93 associates primarily with Polycomb-silenced regions. Comparison to Lamin-associated domains (LADs) revealed that NPC binding sites can be found within LADs, demonstrating a linear binding of the genome along the nuclear envelope. Importantly, we identified a functional role of Nup93 in silencing of Polycomb target genes and in spatial folding of Polycomb domains. Our findings lend to a model where different nuclear pores bind different types of chromatin via interactions with specific NPC sub-complexes, and a subset of Polycomb domains is stabilized by interactions with Nup93."	0
"32561640"	"The guanine nucleotide exchange factor VAV3 participates in ERBB4-mediated cancer cell migration.ERBB4 is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/ERBB subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases that regulates cellular processes including proliferation, migration, and survival. ERBB4 signaling is involved in embryogenesis and homeostasis of healthy adult tissues, but also in human pathologies such as cancer, neurological disorders, and cardiovascular diseases. Here, an MS-based analysis revealed the Vav guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (VAV3), an activator of Rho family GTPases, as a critical ERBB4-interacting protein in breast cancer cells. We confirmed the ERBB4-VAV3 interaction by targeted MS and coimmunoprecipitation experiments and further defined it by demonstrating that kinase activity and Tyr-1022 and Tyr-1162 of ERBB4, as well as the intact phosphotyrosine-interacting SH2 domain of VAV3, are necessary for this interaction. We found that ERBB4 stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of the VAV3 activation domain, known to be required for guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activity of VAV proteins. In addition to VAV3, the other members of the VAV family, VAV1 and VAV2, also coprecipitated with ERBB4. Analyses of the effects of overexpression of dominant-negative VAV3 constructs or shRNA-mediated down-regulation of VAV3 expression in breast cancer cells indicated that active VAV3 is involved in ERBB4-stimulated cell migration. These results define the VAV GEFs as effectors of ERBB4 activity in a signaling pathway relevant for cancer cell migration."	1
"31914378"	"CaMKII versus DAPK1 Binding to GluN2B in Ischemic Neuronal Cell Death after Resuscitation from Cardiac Arrest.DAPK1 binding to GluN2B was prominently reported to mediate ischemic cell death in vivo. DAPK1 and CaMKII bind to the same GluN2B region, and their binding is mutually exclusive. Here, we show that mutating the binding region on GluN2B (L1298A/R1300Q) protected against neuronal cell death induced by cardiac arrest followed by resuscitation. Importantly, the GluN2B mutation selectively abolished only CaMKII, but not DAPK1, binding. During ischemic or excitotoxic insults, CaMKII further accumulated at excitatory synapses, and this accumulation was mediated by GluN2B binding. Interestingly, extra-synaptic GluN2B decreased after ischemia, but its relative association with DAPK1 increased. Thus, ischemic neuronal death requires CaMKII binding to synaptic GluN2B, whereas any potential role for DAPK1 binding is restricted to a different, likely extra-synaptic population of GluN2B."	0
"32553164"	"Patient-Derived Ovarian Cancer Organoids Mimic Clinical Response and Exhibit Heterogeneous Inter- and Intrapatient Drug Responses.There remains an unmet need for preclinical models to enable personalized therapy for ovarian cancer (OC) patients. Here we evaluate the capacity of patient-derived organoids (PDOs) to predict clinical drug response and functional consequences of tumor heterogeneity. We included 36 whole-genome-characterized PDOs from 23 OC patients with known clinical histories. OC PDOs maintain the genomic features of the original tumor lesion and recapitulate patient response to neoadjuvant carboplatin/paclitaxel combination treatment. PDOs display inter- and intrapatient drug response heterogeneity to chemotherapy and targeted drugs, which can be partially explained by genetic aberrations. PDO drug screening identifies high responsiveness to at least one drug for 88% of patients. PDOs are valuable preclinical models that can provide insights into drug response for individual patients with OC, complementary to genetic testing. Generating PDOs of multiple tumor locations can improve clinical decision making and increase our knowledge of genetic and drug response heterogeneity."	0
"32049007"	"Phenformin Inhibits Hedgehog-Dependent Tumor Growth through a Complex I-Independent Redox/Corepressor Module.The antidiabetic drug phenformin displays potent anticancer activity in different tumors, but its mechanism of action remains elusive. Using Shh medulloblastoma as model, we show here that at clinically relevant concentrations, phenformin elicits a significant therapeutic effect through a redox-dependent but complex I-independent mechanism. Phenformin inhibits mitochondrial glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (mGPD), a component of the glycerophosphate shuttle, and causes elevations of intracellular NADH content. Inhibition of mGPD mimics phenformin action and promotes an association between corepressor CtBP2 and Gli1, thereby inhibiting Hh transcriptional output and tumor growth. Because ablation of CtBP2 abrogates the therapeutic effect of phenformin in mice, these data illustrate a biguanide-mediated redox/corepressor interplay, which may represent a relevant target for tumor therapy."	1
"32023463"	"Oct4-Mediated Inhibition of Lsd1 Activity Promotes the Active and Primed State of Pluripotency Enhancers.An aberrant increase in pluripotency gene (PpG) expression due to enhancer reactivation could induce stemness and enhance the tumorigenicity of cancer stem cells. Silencing of PpG enhancers (PpGe) during embryonic stem cell differentiation involves Lsd1-mediated H3K4me1 demethylation and DNA methylation. Here, we observed retention of H3K4me1 and DNA hypomethylation at PpGe associated with a partial repression of PpGs in F9 embryonal carcinoma cells (ECCs) post-differentiation. H3K4me1 demethylation in F9 ECCs could not be rescued by Lsd1 overexpression. Given our observation that H3K4me1 demethylation is accompanied by strong Oct4 repression in P19 ECCs, we tested if Oct4 interaction with Lsd1 affects its catalytic activity. Our data show a dose-dependent inhibition of Lsd1 activity by Oct4 and retention of H3K4me1 at PpGe in Oct4-overexpressing P19 ECCs. These data suggest that Lsd1-Oct4 interaction in cancer stem cells could establish a ""primed"" enhancer state that is susceptible to reactivation, leading to aberrant PpG expression."	1
"32433958"	"Retinoid X Receptor α Regulates DHA-Dependent Spinogenesis and Functional Synapse Formation In Vivo.Coordinated intracellular and extracellular signaling is critical to synapse development and functional neural circuit wiring. Here, we report that unesterified docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) regulates functional synapse formation in vivo via retinoid X receptor α (Rxra) signaling. Using Rxra conditional knockout (cKO) mice and virus-mediated transient gene expression, we show that endogenous Rxra plays important roles in regulating spinogenesis and excitatory synaptic transmission in cortical pyramidal neurons. We further show that the effects of RXRA are mediated through its DNA-binding domain in a cell-autonomous and reversible manner. Moreover, unesterified DHA increases spine formation and excitatory synaptic transmission in vivo in an Rxra-dependent fashion. Rxra cKO mice generally behave normally but show deficits in behavior tasks associated with social memory. Together, these results demonstrate that unesterified DHA signals through RXRA to regulate spinogenesis and functional synapse formation, providing insight into the mechanism through which DHA promotes brain development and cognitive function."	0
"32946761"	"Osmotic Stress Triggers Phase Separation.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Jalihal et al. (2020) show that cell volume changes upon osmotic stress result in rapid and reversible condensation of numerous multivalent proteins."	0
"32433966"	"CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 Axis Mediates Neuroinflammatory Cascade across Schwann Cell-Neuron-Microglia.Neuroinflammation is a crucial mechanism in many neurological disorders. Injury to the peripheral sensory nerves leads to a neuroinflammatory response in the somatosensory pathway, from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) to the spinal cord, contributing to neuropathic pain. How the immune reaction is initiated peripherally and propagated to the spinal cord remains less clear. Here, we find that ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), highly expressed in Schwann cells, mediates neuroinflammatory response through the activating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and inducing interleukin 6 (IL-6) in sensory neurons. Cntf deficiency attenuates neuroinflammation in DRG and the spinal cord with alleviated pain post-injury. Recombinant CNTF applied to the sensory nerves recapitulates neuroinflammation in the DRG and spinal cord, with consequent pain development. We delineate the CNTF-STAT3-IL-6 axis in mediating the onset and progression of the inflammatory cascade from the periphery to the spinal cord with therapeutic implications for neuropathic pain."	1
"32937129"	"A Membrane-Associated DHH-DHHA1 Nuclease Degrades Type III CRISPR Second Messenger.Type III CRISPR-Cas systems initiate an intracellular signaling pathway to confer immunity. The signaling pathway includes synthesis of cyclic oligo-adenylate (cOA) and activation of the RNase activity of type III accessory ribonuclease Csm6/Csx1 by cOA. After the immune response, cOA should be cleared on time to avoid constant cellular RNA degradation. In this study, we find a metal-dependent cOA degradation activity in Sulfolobus islandicus. The activity is associated with the cell membrane and able to accelerate cOA clearance at a high cOA level. Further, we show that a metal-dependent and membrane-associated DHH-DHHA1 family nuclease (MAD) rapidly cleaves cOA and deactivates Csx1 ribonuclease. The cOA degradation efficiency of MAD is much higher than the cellular ring nuclease. However, the subcellular organization may prevent it from degrading nascent cOA. Together, the data suggest that MAD acts as the second cOA degrader after the ring nuclease to remove diffused redundant cOA."	0
"31982308"	"Cancer Cells Employ Nuclear Caspase-8 to Overcome the p53-Dependent G2/M Checkpoint through Cleavage of USP28.Cytosolic caspase-8 is a mediator of death receptor signaling. While caspase-8 expression is lost in some tumors, it is increased in others, indicating a conditional pro-survival function of caspase-8 in cancer. Here, we show that tumor cells employ DNA-damage-induced nuclear caspase-8 to override the p53-dependent G2/M cell-cycle checkpoint. Caspase-8 is upregulated and localized to the nucleus in multiple human cancers, correlating with treatment resistance and poor clinical outcome. Depletion of caspase-8 causes G2/M arrest, stabilization of p53, and induction of p53-dependent intrinsic apoptosis in tumor cells. In the nucleus, caspase-8 cleaves and inactivates the ubiquitin-specific peptidase 28 (USP28), preventing USP28 from de-ubiquitinating and stabilizing wild-type p53. This results in de facto p53 protein loss, switching cell fate from apoptosis toward mitosis. In summary, our work identifies a non-canonical role of caspase-8 exploited by cancer cells to override the p53-dependent G2/M cell-cycle checkpoint."	1
"32402289"	"Foxo3 Promotes the Differentiation and Function of Follicular Helper T Cells.Follicular helper T cells (Tfhs) are essential for germinal center (GC) B cell maturation and antibody development. However, the intrinsic mechanisms that regulate Tfh differentiation are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the frequencies of Tfhs and GC B cells, as well as interleukin-21 (IL-21) and anti-ovalbumin (OVA) antibodies, are markedly decreased in forkhead box O3 (Foxo3) knockout mice immunized with OVA. Using mixed bone marrow chimeras and lymphocyte-repopulated Rag1<sup>-/-</sup> mice proves that wild-type (WT), but not Foxo3-deficient T cells provoke GC B cell maturation and antibody production. Deficiency of Foxo3 inhibits inducible T cell co-stimulator (ICOS)-induced Tfh differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay results suggest that Foxo3 is able to bind to the IL-21 promoter and regulate IL-21 secretion. In conclusion, our study unveils a critical role of Foxo3 in the regulation of Tfh differentiation and IL-21 production. Modulating Foxo3 activity may be beneficial for enhancing or preventing antibody-mediated immune responses."	1
"32294449"	"Cell Metabolic Alterations due to Mcph1 Mutation in Microcephaly.A distinctive feature of neocortical development is the highly coordinated production of different progenitor cell subtypes, which are critical for ensuring adequate neurogenic outcome and the development of normal neocortical size. To further understand the mechanisms that underlie neocortical growth, we focused our studies on the microcephaly gene Mcph1, and we report here that Mcph1 (1) exerts its functions in rapidly dividing apical radial glial cells (aRGCs) during mouse neocortical development stages that precede indirect neurogenesis; (2) is expressed at mitochondria; and (3) controls the proper proliferation and survival of RGCs, potentially through crosstalk with cellular metabolic pathways involving the stimulation of mitochondrial activity via VDAC1/GRP75 and AKT/HK2/VDAC1 and glutaminolysis via ATF4/PCK2. We currently report the description of a MCPH-gene implication in the interplay between bioenergetic pathways and neocortical growth, thus pointing to alterations of cellular metabolic pathways, in particular glutaminolysis, as a possible cause of microcephalic pathogenesis."	1
"32937124"	"The Natural Compound Notopterol Binds and Targets JAK2/3 to Ameliorate Inflammation and Arthritis.The traditional Chinese medicinal herb Notopterygium incisum Ting ex H.T. Chang has anti-rheumatism activity, and a mass spectrometry assay of patients' serum after administration of the herb revealed that notopterol is the most abundant component enriched. However, the functions of notopterol and its molecular target in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment remain unknown. Here, we show in different RA mouse strains that both oral and intraperitoneal administration of notopterol result in significant therapeutic effects. Mechanistically, notopterol directly binds Janus kinase (JAK)2 and JAK3 kinase domains to inhibit JAK/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) activation, leading to reduced production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Critically, combination therapy using both notopterol and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker results in enhanced therapeutic effects compared to using TNF blocker alone. We demonstrate that notopterol ameliorates RA pathology by targeting JAK-STAT signaling, raising the possibility that notopterol could be effective in treating other diseases characterized by aberrant JAK-STAT signaling pathway."	1
"32905768"	"The Negative Cross-Talk between SAG/RBX2/ROC2 and APC/C E3 Ligases in Regulation of Cell Cycle Progression and Drug Resistance.Anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is a well-characterized E3 ligase that couples with UBE2C and UBE2S E2s for substrate ubiquitylation by the K11 linkage. Our recent data show that SAG/RBX2/ROC2, a RING component of Cullin-RING E3 ligase, also complexes with these E2s for K11-linked substrate polyubiquitylation. Whether these two E3s cross-talk with each other was previously unknown. Here, we report that SAG competes with APC2 for UBE2C/UBE2S binding to act as a potential endogenous inhibitor of APC/C, thereby regulating the G2-to-M progression. As such, SAG knockdown triggers premature activation of APC/C, leading to mitotic slippage and resistance to anti-microtubule drugs. On the other hand, SAG itself is a substrate of APC/C<sup>CDH1</sup> for targeted degradation at the G1 phase. The degradation-resistant mutant of SAG-R98A/L101A accelerates the G1-to-S progression. Our study reveals that the negative cross-talk between SAG and APC/C is likely a mechanism to ensure the fidelity of cell cycle progression."	1
"32905775"	"Local Production of Osteoprotegerin by Osteoblasts Suppresses Bone Resorption.Osteoprotegerin (OPG) inhibits the ability of receptor activator of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) ligand (RANKL) to stimulate the differentiation, activity, and survival of bone-resorbing osteoclasts. Genetic studies in mice show that osteocytes are an important source of RANKL, but the cellular sources of OPG are unclear. We use conditional deletion of Tnfrsf11b, which encodes OPG, from different cell populations to identify functionally relevant sources of OPG in mice. Deletion from B lymphocytes and osteocytes, two cell types commonly thought to supply OPG, has little or no impact on bone mass. By contrast, deletion of Tnfrsf11b from osteoblasts increases bone resorption and reduces bone mass to an extent similar to germline deletion, demonstrating that osteoblasts are an essential source of OPG. These results suggest that, in addition to producing new bone matrix, osteoblasts also play an active role in terminating the resorption phase of the bone remodeling cycle by suppressing RANKL activity."	0
"31585103"	"Polyamines and Aging: A CLEAR Connection?A decline in polyamine levels with age has been implicated in the pathophysiology of aging, and nutritional supplementation of spermidine can reduce age-related pathology and increase lifespan in a number of different organisms. In this issue of Molecular Cell, Zhang and colleagues provide a mechanistic link between polyamines, autophagy, and aging."	0
"31733992"	"An mTORC1-to-CDK1 Switch Maintains Autophagy Suppression during Mitosis.Since nuclear envelope breakdown occurs during mitosis in metazoan cells, it has been proposed that macroautophagy must be inhibited to maintain genome integrity. However, repression of macroautophagy during mitosis remains controversial and mechanistic detail limited to the suggestion that CDK1 phosphorylates VPS34. Here, we show that initiation of macroautophagy, measured by the translocation of the ULK complex to autophagic puncta, is repressed during mitosis, even when mTORC1 is inhibited. Indeed, mTORC1 is inactive during mitosis, reflecting its failure to localize to lysosomes due to CDK1-dependent RAPTOR phosphorylation. While mTORC1 normally represses autophagy via phosphorylation of ULK1, ATG13, ATG14, and TFEB, we show that the mitotic phosphorylation of these autophagy regulators, including at known repressive sites, is dependent on CDK1 but independent of mTOR. Thus, CDK1 substitutes for inhibited mTORC1 as the master regulator of macroautophagy during mitosis, uncoupling autophagy regulation from nutrient status to ensure repression of macroautophagy during mitosis."	1
"32755573"	"Lysophosphatidic Acid-Mediated GPR35 Signaling in CX3CR1<sup>+</sup> Macrophages Regulates Intestinal Homeostasis.Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the gene encoding G protein-coupled receptor 35 (GPR35) are associated with increased risk of inflammatory bowel disease. However, the mechanisms by which GPR35 modulates intestinal immune homeostasis remain undefined. Here, integrating zebrafish and mouse experimental models, we demonstrate that intestinal Gpr35 expression is microbiota dependent and enhanced upon inflammation. Moreover, murine GPR35<sup>+</sup> colonic macrophages are characterized by enhanced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. We identify lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) as a potential endogenous ligand produced during intestinal inflammation, acting through GPR35 to induce tumor necrosis factor (Tnf) expression in macrophages. Mice lacking Gpr35 in CX3CR1<sup>+</sup> macrophages aggravate colitis when exposed to dextran sodium sulfate, which is associated with decreased transcript levels of the corticosterone-generating gene Cyp11b1 and macrophage-derived Tnf. Administration of TNF in these mice restores Cyp11b1 expression and intestinal corticosterone production and ameliorates DSS-induced colitis. Our findings indicate that LPA signals through GPR35 in CX3CR1<sup>+</sup> macrophages to maintain TNF-mediated intestinal homeostasis."	0
"32611769"	"Methyltransferase-like 21C (METTL21C) methylates alanine tRNA synthetase at Lys-943 in muscle tissue.Protein-lysine methylation is a common posttranslational modification (PTM) throughout the human proteome that plays important roles in diverse biological processes. In humans, there are >100 known and candidate protein lysine methyltransferases (PKMTs), many of which are linked to human diseases. Methyltransferase-like protein 21C (METTL21C) is a PKMT implicated in muscle biology that has been reported to methylate valosin-containing protein/p97 (VCP) and heat shock 70-kDa protein 8 (HSPA8). However, a clear <i>in vitro</i> methyltransferase activity for METTL21C remains yet to be demonstrated, and whether it is an active enzyme that directly methylates substrate(s) <i>in vivo</i> is unclear. Here, we used an unbiased biochemistry-based screening assay coupled to MS, which identified alanine tRNA synthetase 1 (AARS1) as a direct substrate of METTL21C. We found that METTL21C catalyzes methylation of Lys-943 of AARS1 (AARS1-K943me) both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i><i>In vitro</i> METTL21C-mediated AARS1 methylation was independent of ATP or tRNA molecules. Unlike for AARS1, and in conflict with previous reports, we did not detect METTL21C methylation of VCP and HSPA8. AARS1-K943 methylation in HEK293T cells depends upon METTL21C levels. Finally, METTL2C was almost exclusively expressed in muscle tissue, and, accordingly, we detected METTL21C-catalyzed methylation of AARS1 in mouse skeletal muscle tissue. These results reveal that AARS1 is a <i>bona fide in vitro</i> substrate of METTL21C and suggest a role for the METTL21C-AARS1 axis in the regulation of protein synthesis in muscle tissue. Moreover, our study describes a straightforward protocol for elucidating the physiological substrates of poorly characterized or uncharacterized PKMTs."	1
"32576659"	"The orphan receptor GPR139 signals via G<sub>q/11</sub> to oppose opioid effects.The interplay between G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is critical for controlling neuronal activity that shapes neuromodulatory outcomes. Recent evidence indicates that the orphan receptor GPR139 influences opioid modulation of key brain circuits by opposing the actions of the µ-opioid receptor (MOR). However, the function of GPR139 and its signaling mechanisms are poorly understood. In this study, we report that GPR139 activates multiple heterotrimeric G proteins, including members of the G<sub>q/11</sub> and G<sub>i/o</sub> families. Using a panel of reporter assays in reconstituted HEK293T/17 cells, we found that GPR139 functions via the G<sub>q/11</sub> pathway and thereby distinctly regulates cellular effector systems, including stimulation of cAMP production and inhibition of G protein inward rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels. Electrophysiological recordings from medial habenular neurons revealed that GPR139 signaling via G<sub>q/11</sub> is necessary and sufficient for counteracting MOR-mediated inhibition of neuronal firing. These results uncover a mechanistic interplay between GPCRs involved in controlling opioidergic neuromodulation in the brain."	0
"32320656"	"CytoMAP: A Spatial Analysis Toolbox Reveals Features of Myeloid Cell Organization in Lymphoid Tissues.Recently developed approaches for highly multiplexed imaging have revealed complex patterns of cellular positioning and cell-cell interactions with important roles in both cellular- and tissue-level physiology. However, tools to quantitatively study cellular patterning and tissue architecture are currently lacking. Here, we develop a spatial analysis toolbox, the histo-cytometric multidimensional analysis pipeline (CytoMAP), which incorporates data clustering, positional correlation, dimensionality reduction, and 2D/3D region reconstruction to identify localized cellular networks and reveal features of tissue organization. We apply CytoMAP to study the microanatomy of innate immune subsets in murine lymph nodes (LNs) and reveal mutually exclusive segregation of migratory dendritic cells (DCs), regionalized compartmentalization of SIRPα<sup>-</sup> dermal DCs, and preferential association of resident DCs with select LN vasculature. The findings provide insights into the organization of myeloid cells in LNs and demonstrate that CytoMAP is a comprehensive analytics toolbox for revealing features of tissue organization in imaging datasets."	0
"32651229"	"Retromer forms low order oligomers on supported lipid bilayers.Retromer orchestrates the selection and export of integral membrane proteins from the endosome via retrograde and plasma membrane recycling pathways. Long-standing hypotheses regarding the retromer sorting mechanism posit that oligomeric interactions between retromer and associated accessory factors on the endosome membrane drives clustering of retromer-bound integral membrane cargo prior to its packaging into a nascent transport carrier. To test this idea, we examined interactions between components of the sorting nexin 3 (SNX3)-retromer sorting pathway using quantitative single particle fluorescence microscopy in a reconstituted system. This system includes a supported lipid bilayer, fluorescently labeled retromer, SNX3, and two model cargo proteins, RAB7, and retromer-binding segments of the WASHC2C subunit of the WASH complex. We found that the distribution of membrane-associated retromer is predominantly comprised of monomer (∼18%), dimer (∼35%), trimer (∼24%), and tetramer (∼13%). Unexpectedly, neither the presence of membrane-associated cargo nor accessory factors substantially affected this distribution. The results indicate that retromer has an intrinsic propensity to form low order oligomers on a supported lipid bilayer and that neither membrane association nor accessory factors potentiate oligomerization. The results support a model whereby SNX3-retromer is a minimally concentrative coat protein complex adapted to bulk membrane trafficking from the endosomal system."	0
"32294429"	"Progesterone Receptor Serves the Ovary as a Trigger of Ovulation and a Terminator of Inflammation.Ovulation is triggered by the gonadotropin surge that induces the expression of two key genes, progesterone receptor (Pgr) and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2), in the granulosa cells of preovulatory follicles. Their gene products PGR and PTGS2 activate two separate pathways that are both essential for successful ovulation. Here, we show that the PGR plays an additional essential role: it attenuates ovulatory inflammation by diminishing the gonadotropin surge-induced Ptgs2 expression. PGR indirectly terminates Ptgs2 expression and PGE2 synthesis in granulosa cells by inhibiting the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), a transcription factor required for Ptgs2 expression. When the expression of PGR is ablated in granulosa cells, the ovary undergoes a hyperinflammatory condition manifested by excessive PGE2 synthesis, immune cell infiltration, oxidative damage, and neoplastic transformation of ovarian cells. The PGR-driven termination of PTGS2 expression may protect the ovary from ovulatory inflammation."	1
"31940490"	"p53 Integrates Temporal WDR5 Inputs during Neuroectoderm and Mesoderm Differentiation of Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells.How ubiquitous transcription factors (TFs) coordinate temporal inputs from broadly expressed epigenetic factors to control cell fate remains poorly understood. Here, we uncover a molecular relationship between p53, an abundant embryonic TF, and WDR5, an essential member of the MLL chromatin modifying complex, that regulates mouse embryonic stem cell fate. Wild-type Wdr5 or transient Wdr5 knockout promotes a distinct pattern of global chromatin accessibility and spurs neuroectodermal differentiation through an RbBP5-dependent process in which WDR5 binds to, and activates transcription of, neural genes. Wdr5 rescue after its prolonged inhibition targets WDR5 to mesoderm lineage-specifying genes, stimulating differentiation toward mesoderm fates in a p53-dependent fashion. Finally, we identify a direct interaction between WDR5 and p53 that enables their co-recruitment to, and regulation of, genes known to control cell proliferation and fate. Our results unmask p53-dependent mechanisms that temporally integrate epigenetic WDR5 inputs to drive neuroectoderm and mesoderm differentiation from pluripotent cells."	0
"30738703"	"Porin Associates with Tom22 to Regulate the Mitochondrial Protein Gate Assembly.Mitochondria import nearly all of their resident proteins from the cytosol, and the TOM complex functions as their entry gate. The TOM complex undergoes a dynamic conversion between the majority population of a three-channel gateway (""trimer"") and the minor population that lacks Tom22 and has only two Tom40 channels (""dimer""). Here, we found that the porin Por1 acts as a sink to bind newly imported Tom22. This Por1 association thereby modulates Tom22 integration into the TOM complex, guaranteeing formation of the functional trimeric TOM complex. Por1 sequestration of Tom22 dissociated from the trimeric TOM complex also enhances the dimeric TOM complex, which is preferable for the import of TIM40/MIA-dependent proteins into mitochondria. Furthermore, Por1 appears to contribute to cell-cycle-dependent variation of the functional trimeric TOM complex by chaperoning monomeric Tom22, which arises from the cell-cycle-controlled variation of phosphorylated Tom6."	1
"32375032"	"MicroRNA-9 Fine-Tunes Dendritic Cell Function by Suppressing Negative Regulators in a Cell-Type-Specific Manner.Dendritic cells, cells of the innate immune system, are found in a steady state poised to respond to activating stimuli. Once stimulated, they rapidly undergo dynamic changes in gene expression to adopt an activated phenotype capable of stimulating immune responses. We find that the microRNA miR-9 is upregulated in both bone marrow-derived DCs and conventional DC1s but not in conventional DC2s following stimulation. miR-9 expression in BMDCs and conventional DC1s promotes enhanced DC activation and function, including the ability to stimulate T cell activation and control tumor growth. We find that miR-9 regulated the expression of several negative regulators of transcription, including the transcriptional repressor Polycomb group factor 6 (Pcgf6). These findings demonstrate that miR-9 facilitates the transition of DCs from steady state to mature state by regulating the expression of several negative regulators of DC function in a cell-type-specific manner."	1
"31130363"	"Cyclin F Controls Cell-Cycle Transcriptional Outputs by Directing the Degradation of the Three Activator E2Fs.E2F1, E2F2, and E2F3A, the three activators of the E2F family of transcription factors, are key regulators of the G1/S transition, promoting transcription of hundreds of genes critical for cell-cycle progression. We found that during late S and in G2, the degradation of all three activator E2Fs is controlled by cyclin F, the substrate receptor of 1 of 69 human SCF ubiquitin ligase complexes. E2F1, E2F2, and E2F3A interact with the cyclin box of cyclin F via their conserved N-terminal cyclin binding motifs. In the short term, E2F mutants unable to bind cyclin F remain stable throughout the cell cycle, induce unscheduled transcription in G2 and mitosis, and promote faster entry into the next S phase. However, in the long term, they impair cell fitness. We propose that by restricting E2F activity to the S phase, cyclin F controls one of the main and most critical transcriptional engines of the cell cycle."	1
"32460026"	"Synthetic Lethality between DNA Polymerase Epsilon and RTEL1 in Metazoan DNA Replication.Genome stability requires coordination of DNA replication origin activation and replication fork progression. RTEL1 is a regulator of homologous recombination (HR) implicated in meiotic cross-over control and DNA repair in C. elegans. Through a genome-wide synthetic lethal screen, we uncovered an essential genetic interaction between RTEL1 and DNA polymerase (Pol) epsilon. Loss of POLE4, an accessory subunit of Pol epsilon, has no overt phenotype in worms. In contrast, the combined loss of POLE-4 and RTEL-1 results in embryonic lethality, accumulation of HR intermediates, genome instability, and cessation of DNA replication. Similarly, loss of Rtel1 in Pole4<sup>-/-</sup> mouse cells inhibits cellular proliferation, which is associated with persistent HR intermediates and incomplete DNA replication. We propose that RTEL1 facilitates genome-wide fork progression through its ability to metabolize DNA secondary structures that form during DNA replication. Loss of this function becomes incompatible with cell survival under conditions of reduced origin activation, such as Pol epsilon hypomorphy."	0
"31542297"	"Glutarylation of Histone H4 Lysine 91 Regulates Chromatin Dynamics.Histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) regulate chromatin structure and dynamics during various DNA-associated processes. Here, we report that lysine glutarylation (Kglu) occurs at 27 lysine residues on human core histones. Using semi-synthetic glutarylated histones, we show that an evolutionarily conserved Kglu at histone H4K91 destabilizes nucleosome in vitro. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the replacement of H4K91 by glutamate that mimics Kglu influences chromatin structure and thereby results in a global upregulation of transcription and defects in cell-cycle progression, DNA damage repair, and telomere silencing. In mammalian cells, H4K91glu is mainly enriched at promoter regions of highly expressed genes. A downregulation of H4K91glu is tightly associated with chromatin condensation during mitosis and in response to DNA damage. The cellular dynamics of H4K91glu is controlled by Sirt7 as a deglutarylase and KAT2A as a glutaryltransferase. This study designates a new histone mark (Kglu) as a new regulatory mechanism for chromatin dynamics."	1
"32442502"	"Shoot the Messenger! A New Phage Weapon to Neutralize the Type III CRISPR Immune Response.Athukoralage et al. (2020) identify a new anti-CRISPR (Acr) that degrades cA<sub>4</sub>, a cyclic oligo-adenylate second messenger produced during the type III CRISPR immune response. This provides an effective way by which invaders can bypass downstream CRISPR effectors that rely on this signaling molecule."	0
"31253573"	"Pioneer Factor-Nucleosome Binding Events during Differentiation Are Motif Encoded.Although the in vitro structural and in vivo spatial characteristics of transcription factor (TF) binding are well defined, TF interactions with chromatin and other companion TFs during development are poorly understood. To analyze such interactions in vivo, we profiled several TFs across a time course of human embryonic stem cell differentiation and studied their interactions with nucleosomes and co-occurring TFs by enhanced chromatin occupancy (EChO), a computational strategy for classifying TF interactions with chromatin. EChO shows that multiple individual TFs can employ either direct DNA binding or ""pioneer"" nucleosome binding at different enhancer targets. Nucleosome binding is not exclusively confined to inaccessible chromatin but rather correlated with local binding of other TFs and degeneracy at key bases in the pioneer factor target motif responsible for direct DNA binding. Our strategy reveals a dynamic exchange of TFs at enhancers across developmental time that is aided by pioneer nucleosome binding."	0
"31588022"	"Dinucleotide Degradation by REXO2 Maintains Promoter Specificity in Mammalian Mitochondria.Oligoribonucleases are conserved enzymes that degrade short RNA molecules of up to 5 nt in length and are assumed to constitute the final stage of RNA turnover. Here we demonstrate that REXO2 is a specialized dinucleotide-degrading enzyme that shows no preference between RNA and DNA dinucleotide substrates. A heart- and skeletal-muscle-specific knockout mouse displays elevated dinucleotide levels and alterations in gene expression patterns indicative of aberrant dinucleotide-primed transcription initiation. We find that dinucleotides act as potent stimulators of mitochondrial transcription initiation in vitro. Our data demonstrate that increased levels of dinucleotides can be used to initiate transcription, leading to an increase in transcription levels from both mitochondrial promoters and other, nonspecific sequence elements in mitochondrial DNA. Efficient RNA turnover by REXO2 is thus required to maintain promoter specificity and proper regulation of transcription in mammalian mitochondria."	0
"32546480"	"Differences in self-association between kindlin-2 and kindlin-3 are associated with differential integrin binding.The integrin family of transmembrane adhesion receptors coordinates complex signaling networks that control the ability of cells to sense and communicate with the extracellular environment. Kindlin proteins are a central cytoplasmic component of these networks, directly binding integrin cytoplasmic domains and mediating interactions with cytoskeletal and signaling proteins. The physiological importance of kindlins is well established, but how the scaffolding functions of kindlins are regulated at the molecular level is still unclear. Here, using a combination of GFP nanotrap association assays, pulldown and integrin-binding assays, and live-cell imaging, we demonstrate that full-length kindlins can oligomerize (self-associate) in mammalian cells, and we propose that this self-association inhibits integrin binding and kindlin localization to focal adhesions. We show that both kindlin-2 and kindlin-3 can self-associate and that kindlin-3 self-association is more robust. Using chimeric mapping, we demonstrate that the F2PH and F3 subdomains are important for kindlin self-association. Through comparative sequence analysis of kindlin-2 and kindlin-3, we identify kindlin-3 point mutations that decrease self-association and enhance integrin binding, affording mutant kindlin-3 the ability to localize to focal adhesions. Our results support the notion that kindlin self-association negatively regulates integrin binding."	0
"31101497"	"Cyclin-Specific Docking Mechanisms Reveal the Complexity of M-CDK Function in the Cell Cycle.Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) coordinate hundreds of molecular events during the cell cycle. Multiple cyclins are involved, but the global role of cyclin-specific phosphorylation has remained unsolved. We uncovered a cyclin docking motif, LxF, that mediates binding of replication factor Cdc6 to mitotic cyclin. This interaction leads to phospho-adaptor Cks1-mediated inhibition of M-CDK to facilitate Cdc6 accumulation and sequestration in mitosis. The LxF motif and Cks1 also mediate the mutual inhibition between M-CDK and the tyrosine kinase Swe1. Additionally, the LxF motif is critical for targeting M-CDK to phosphorylate several mitotic regulators; for example, Spo12 is targeted via LxF to release the phosphatase Cdc14. The results complete the full set of G1, S, and M-CDK docking mechanisms and outline the unified role of cyclin specificity and CDK activity thresholds. Cooperation of cyclin and Cks1 docking creates a variety of CDK thresholds and switching orders, including combinations of last in, first out (LIFO) and first in, first out (FIFO) ordering."	0
"32839549"	"Epigenetic silencing of the ubiquitin ligase subunit FBXL7 impairs c-SRC degradation and promotes epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and metastasis.Epigenetic plasticity is a pivotal factor that drives metastasis. Here, we show that the promoter of the gene that encodes the ubiquitin ligase subunit FBXL7 is hypermethylated in advanced prostate and pancreatic cancers, correlating with decreased FBXL7 mRNA and protein levels. Low FBXL7 mRNA levels are predictive of poor survival in patients with pancreatic and prostatic cancers. FBXL7 mediates the ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation of active c-SRC after its phosphorylation at Ser 104. The DNA-demethylating agent decitabine recovers FBXL7 expression and limits epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and cell invasion in a c-SRC-dependent manner. In vivo, FBXL7-depleted cancer cells form tumours with a high metastatic burden. Silencing of c-SRC or treatment with the c-SRC inhibitor dasatinib together with FBXL7 depletion prevents metastases. Furthermore, decitabine reduces metastases derived from prostate and pancreatic cancer cells in a FBXL7-dependent manner. Collectively, this research implicates FBXL7 as a metastasis-suppressor gene and suggests therapeutic strategies to counteract metastatic dissemination of pancreatic and prostatic cancer cells."	1
"31914402"	"TRIM32/USP11 Balances ARID1A Stability and the Oncogenic/Tumor-Suppressive Status of Squamous Cell Carcinoma.Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is an aggressive epithelial malignancy, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying SCC development are elusive. ARID1A is frequently mutated in various cancer types, but both mutation rates and expression levels of ARID1A are ubiquitously low in SCCs. Here, we reveal that excessive protein degradation mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) contributes to the loss of ARID1A expression in SCC. We identify that the E3 ligase TRIM32 and the deubiquitinase USP11 play key roles in controlling ARID1A stability. TRIM32 depletion inhibits SCC cell proliferation, metastasis, and chemoresistance by stabilizing ARID1A, while USP11 depletion promotes SCC development by promoting ARID1A degradation. We show that syndecan-2 (SDC2) is the downstream target of both ARID1A and USP11 and that SDC2 depletion abolishes the oncogenic function of ARID1A loss. In summary, our data reveal UPS-mediated protein degradation as a mechanism underlying ARID1A loss and propose an important role for the TRIM32/USP11-ARID1A-SDC2 axis in SCC."	1
"32559426"	"Place Your BETs in Combination Therapy.Combination therapy remains the cornerstone for cancer management, and understanding how to rationally partner drugs is imperative. In this issue of Molecular Cell, Shu et al. (2020) provide a tour de force multi-omic approach to identify synergistic pathways that increase the efficacy of BET bromodomain inhibitors in triple-negative breast cancer."	0
"32668238"	"Modeling Type 1 Diabetes In Vitro Using Human Pluripotent Stem Cells.Understanding the root causes of autoimmune diseases is hampered by the inability to access relevant human tissues and identify the time of disease onset. To examine the interaction of immune cells and their cellular targets in type 1 diabetes, we differentiated human induced pluripotent stem cells into pancreatic endocrine cells, including β cells. Here, we describe an in vitro platform that models features of human type 1 diabetes using stress-induced patient-derived endocrine cells and autologous immune cells. We demonstrate a cell-type-specific response by autologous immune cells against induced pluripotent stem cell-derived β cells, along with a reduced effect on α cells. This approach represents a path to developing disease models that use patient-derived cells to predict the outcome of an autoimmune response."	0
"32610129"	"Angiocrine Sphingosine-1-Phosphate Activation of S1PR2-YAP Signaling Axis in Alveolar Type II Cells Is Essential for Lung Repair.Lung alveolar epithelium is composed of alveolar type I (AT1) and type II (AT2) cells. AT1 cells mediate gas exchange, whereas AT2 cells act as progenitor cells to repair injured alveoli. Lung microvascular endothelial cells (LMVECs) play a crucial but still poorly understood role in regulating alveolar repair. Here, we studied the role of the LMVEC-derived bioactive lipid sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) in promoting alveolar repair using mice with endothelial-specific deletion of sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1), the key enzyme promoting S1P generation. These mutant lungs developed airspace-enlargement lesions and exhibited a reduced number of AT1 cells after Pseudomonas-aeruginosa-induced lung injury. We demonstrated that S1P released by LMVECs acted via its receptor, S1PR2, on AT2 cells and induced nuclear translocation of yes-associated protein (YAP), a regulator of AT2 to AT1 transition. Thus, angiocrine S1P released after injury acts via the S1PR2-YAP signaling axis on AT2 cells to promote AT2 to AT1 differentiation required for alveolar repair."	1
"32187535"	"Morphine and Naloxone Facilitate Neural Stem Cells Proliferation via a TET1-Dependent and Receptor-Independent Pathway.Normally, opioids function in a receptor-dependent manner. They bind to opioid receptors, activate or inhibit receptor activation, and subsequently modulate downstream signal transduction. However, the complex functions of opioids and the low expression of opioid receptors and their endogenous peptide agonists in neural stem cells (NSCs) suggest that some opioids may also modulate NSCs via a receptor-independent pathway. In the current study, two opioids, morphine and naloxone, are demonstrated to facilitate NSC proliferation via a receptor-independent and ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1)-dependent pathway. Morphine and naloxone penetrate cell membrane, bind to TET1 protein via three key residues (1,880-1,882), and subsequently result in facilitated proliferation of NSCs. In addition, the two opioids also inhibit the DNA demethylation ability of TET1. In summary, the current results connect opioids and DNA demethylation directly at least in NSCs and extend our understanding on both opioids and NSCs."	1
"31542296"	"Rad52 Restrains Resection at DNA Double-Strand Break Ends in Yeast.Rad52 is a key factor for homologous recombination (HR) in yeast. Rad52 helps assemble Rad51-ssDNA nucleoprotein filaments that catalyze DNA strand exchange, and it mediates single-strand DNA annealing. We find that Rad52 has an even earlier function in HR in restricting DNA double-stranded break ends resection that generates 3' single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) tails. In fission yeast, Exo1 is the primary resection nuclease, with the helicase Rqh1 playing a minor role. We demonstrate that the choice of two extensive resection pathways is regulated by Rad52. In rad52 cells, the resection rate increases from ∼3-5 kb/h up to ∼10-20 kb/h in an Rqh1-dependent manner, while Exo1 becomes dispensable. Budding yeast Rad52 similarly inhibits Sgs1-dependent resection. Single-molecule analysis with purified budding yeast proteins shows that Rad52 competes with Sgs1 for DNA end binding and inhibits Sgs1 translocation along DNA. These results identify a role for Rad52 in limiting ssDNA generated by end resection."	1
"31914388"	"The Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Delta Regulates Developmental Neurogenesis.PTPRD is a receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase that is genetically associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we asked whether Ptprd mutations cause aberrant neural development by perturbing neurogenesis in the murine cortex. We show that loss of Ptprd causes increases in neurogenic transit-amplifying intermediate progenitor cells and cortical neurons and perturbations in neuronal localization. These effects are intrinsic to neural precursor cells since acute Ptprd knockdown causes similar perturbations. PTPRD mediates these effects by dephosphorylating receptor tyrosine kinases, including TrkB and PDGFRβ, and loss of Ptprd causes the hyperactivation of TrkB and PDGFRβ and their downstream MEK-ERK signaling pathway in neural precursor cells. Moreover, inhibition of aberrant TrkB or MEK activation rescues the increased neurogenesis caused by knockdown or homozygous loss of Ptprd. These results suggest that PTPRD regulates receptor tyrosine kinases to ensure appropriate numbers of intermediate progenitor cells and neurons, suggesting a mechanism for its genetic association with neurodevelopmental disorders."	1
"32402271"	"The Histone Methyltransferase G9a Controls Axon Growth by Targeting the RhoA Signaling Pathway.The generation of axonal and dendritic domains is critical for brain circuitry assembly and physiology. Negative players, such as the RhoA-Rho coiled-coil-associated protein kinase (ROCK) signaling pathway, restrain axon development and polarization. Surprisingly, the genetic control of neuronal polarity has remained largely unexplored. Here, we report that, in primary cultured neurons, expression of the histone methyltransferase G9a and nuclear translocation of its major splicing isoform (G9a/E10+) peak at the time of axon formation. RNAi suppression of G9a/E10+ or pharmacological blockade of G9a constrains neuronal migration, axon initiation, and the establishment of neuronal polarity in situ and in vitro. Inhibition of G9a function upregulates RhoA-ROCK activity by increasing the expression of Lfc, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for RhoA. Together, these results identify G9a as a player in neuronal polarization."	1
"32719004"	"A revised mechanism for (p)ppGpp synthesis by Rel proteins: The critical role of the 2'-OH of GTP.Bacterial Rel proteins synthesize hyperphosphorylated guanosine nucleotides, denoted as (p)ppGpp, which by inhibiting energy requiring molecular pathways help bacteria to overcome the depletion of nutrients in its surroundings. (p)ppGpp synthesis by Rel involves transferring a pyrophosphate from ATP to the oxygen of 3'-OH of GTP/GDP. Initially, a conserved glutamate at the active site was believed to generate the nucleophile necessary to accomplish the reaction. Later this role was alluded to a Mg<sup>2+</sup> ion. However, no study has unequivocally established a catalytic mechanism for (p)ppGpp synthesis. Here we present a revised mechanism, wherein for the first time we explore a role for 2'-OH of GTP and show how it is important in generating the nucleophile. Through a careful comparison of substrate-bound structures of Rel, we illustrate that the active site does not discriminate GTP from dGTP, for a substrate. Using biochemical studies, we demonstrate that both GTP and dGTP bind to Rel, but only GTP (but not dGTP) can form the product. Reactions performed using GTP analogs substituted with different chemical moieties at the 2' position suggest a clear role for 2'-OH in catalysis by providing an indispensable hydrogen bond; preliminary computational analysis further supports this view. This study elucidating a catalytic role for 2'-OH of GTP in (p)ppGpp synthesis allows us to propose different mechanistic possibilities by which it generates the nucleophile for the synthesis reaction. This study underscores the selection of ribose nucleotides as second messengers and finds its roots in the old RNA world hypothesis."	0
"31676232"	"PRIMPOL-Mediated Adaptive Response Suppresses Replication Fork Reversal in BRCA-Deficient Cells.Acute treatment with replication-stalling chemotherapeutics causes reversal of replication forks. BRCA proteins protect reversed forks from nucleolytic degradation, and their loss leads to chemosensitivity. Here, we show that fork degradation is no longer detectable in BRCA1-deficient cancer cells exposed to multiple cisplatin doses, mimicking a clinical treatment regimen. This effect depends on increased expression and chromatin loading of PRIMPOL and is regulated by ATR activity. Electron microscopy and single-molecule DNA fiber analyses reveal that PRIMPOL rescues fork degradation by reinitiating DNA synthesis past DNA lesions. PRIMPOL repriming leads to accumulation of ssDNA gaps while suppressing fork reversal. We propose that cells adapt to repeated cisplatin doses by activating PRIMPOL repriming under conditions that would otherwise promote pathological reversed fork degradation. This effect is generalizable to other conditions of impaired fork reversal (e.g., SMARCAL1 loss or PARP inhibition) and suggests a new strategy to modulate cisplatin chemosensitivity by targeting the PRIMPOL pathway."	1
"32521263"	"Rapid and Efficient Invasion Assay of Glioblastoma in Human Brain Organoids.Glioblastoma (GBM) possesses glioma stem cells (GSCs) that exhibit aggressive invasion behavior in the brain. Current preclinical GBM invasion assays using mouse brain xenografts are time consuming and less efficient. Here, we demonstrate an array of methods that allow rapid and efficient assaying of GSCs invasion in human brain organoids. The assays are versatile to characterize various aspects of GSCs, such as invasion, integration, and interaction with mature neurons of brain organoids. Tissue clearing and quantitative 3D imaging of GSCs in host organoids reveal that invasiveness is inversely correlated with the organoids' age. Importantly, the described invasion assays can distinguish the invasive behaviors of primary and recurrent GSCs. The assays are also amenable to test pharmacological agents. As an example, we show that GI254023X, an inhibitor of ADAM10, could prevent the integration of GSCs into the organoids."	0
"32531202"	"Tuning Transcription Factor Availability through Acetylation-Mediated Genomic Redistribution.It is widely assumed that decreasing transcription factor DNA-binding affinity reduces transcription initiation by diminishing occupancy of sequence-specific regulatory elements. However, in vivo transcription factors find their binding sites while confronted with a large excess of low-affinity degenerate motifs. Here, using the melanoma lineage survival oncogene MITF as a model, we show that low-affinity binding sites act as a competitive reservoir in vivo from which transcription factors are released by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-stimulated acetylation to promote increased occupancy of their regulatory elements. Consequently, a low-DNA-binding-affinity acetylation-mimetic MITF mutation supports melanocyte development and drives tumorigenesis, whereas a high-affinity non-acetylatable mutant does not. The results reveal a paradoxical acetylation-mediated molecular clutch that tunes transcription factor availability via genome-wide redistribution and couples BRAF to tumorigenesis. Our results further suggest that p300/CREB-binding protein-mediated transcription factor acetylation may represent a common mechanism to control transcription factor availability."	0
"32668249"	"Pathogenic Tau Causes a Toxic Depletion of Nuclear Calcium.Synaptic activity-induced calcium (Ca<sup>2+</sup>) influx and subsequent propagation into the nucleus is a major way in which synapses communicate with the nucleus to regulate transcriptional programs important for activity-dependent survival and memory formation. Nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup> shapes the transcriptome by regulating cyclic AMP (cAMP) response element-binding protein (CREB). Here, we utilize a Drosophila model of tauopathy and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons from humans with Alzheimer's disease to study the effects of pathogenic tau, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease and related tauopathies, on nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup>. We find that pathogenic tau depletes nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup> and CREB to drive neuronal death, that CREB-regulated genes are over-represented among differentially expressed genes in tau transgenic Drosophila, and that activation of big potassium (BK) channels elevates nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup> and suppresses tau-induced neurotoxicity. Our studies identify nuclear Ca<sup>2+</sup> depletion as a mechanism contributing to tau-induced neurotoxicity, adding an important dimension to the calcium hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease."	0
