"pmid"	"text"	"hit"
"32580946"	"Muscarinic-dependent phosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor by protein kinase G is mediated by PI3K-AKT-nNOS signaling.Post-translational modifications of proteins involved in calcium handling in myocytes, such as the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2), critically regulate cardiac contractility. Recent studies have suggested that phosphorylation of RyR2 by protein kinase G (PKG) might contribute to the cardioprotective effects of cholinergic stimulation. However, the specific mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear. Here, using murine ventricular myocytes, immunoblotting, proximity ligation as-says, and nitric oxide imaging, we report that phosphorylation of Ser-2808 in RyR2 induced by the muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol is mediated by a signaling axis comprising phosphoinositide 3-phosphate kinase, Akt Ser/Thr kinase, nitric oxide synthase 1, nitric oxide, soluble guanylate cyclase, cyclic GMP (cGMP), and PKG. We found that this signaling pathway is compartmentalized in myocytes, as it was distinct from atrial natriuretic peptide receptor-cGMP-PKG-RyR2 Ser-2808 signaling and independent of muscarinic-induced phosphorylation of Ser-239 in vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein. These results provide detailed insights into muscarinic-induced PKG signaling and the mediators that regulate cardiac RyR2 phosphorylation critical for cardiovascular function."	1
"32610129"	"Angiocrine Sphingosine-1-Phosphate Activation of S1PR2-YAP Signaling Axis in Alveolar Type II Cells Is Essential for Lung Repair.Lung alveolar epithelium is composed of alveolar type I (AT1) and type II (AT2) cells. AT1 cells mediate gas exchange, whereas AT2 cells act as progenitor cells to repair injured alveoli. Lung microvascular endothelial cells (LMVECs) play a crucial but still poorly understood role in regulating alveolar repair. Here, we studied the role of the LMVEC-derived bioactive lipid sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) in promoting alveolar repair using mice with endothelial-specific deletion of sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1), the key enzyme promoting S1P generation. These mutant lungs developed airspace-enlargement lesions and exhibited a reduced number of AT1 cells after Pseudomonas-aeruginosa-induced lung injury. We demonstrated that S1P released by LMVECs acted via its receptor, S1PR2, on AT2 cells and induced nuclear translocation of yes-associated protein (YAP), a regulator of AT2 to AT1 transition. Thus, angiocrine S1P released after injury acts via the S1PR2-YAP signaling axis on AT2 cells to promote AT2 to AT1 differentiation required for alveolar repair."	1
"32587090"	"The WD40-repeat protein WDR-48 promotes the stability of the deubiquitinating enzyme USP-46 by inhibiting its ubiquitination and degradation.Ubiquitination is a reversible post-translational modification that has emerged as a critical regulator of synapse development and function. However, the mechanisms that regulate the deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) responsible for the removal of ubiquitin from target proteins are poorly understood. We have previously shown that the DUB ubiquitin-specific protease 46 (USP-46) removes ubiquitin from the glutamate receptor GLR-1 and regulates its trafficking and degradation in <i>Caenorhabditis elegans</i> We found that the WD40-repeat proteins WDR-20 and WDR-48 bind and stimulate the catalytic activity of USP-46. Here, we identified another mechanism by which WDR-48 regulates USP-46. We found that increased expression of WDR-48, but not WDR-20, promotes USP-46 abundance in mammalian cells in culture and in <i>C. elegans</i> neurons <i>in vivo</i> Inhibition of the proteasome increased USP-46 abundance, and this effect was nonadditive with increased WDR-48 expression. We found that USP-46 is ubiquitinated and that expression of WDR-48 reduces the levels of ubiquitin-USP-46 conjugates and increases the <i>t</i><sub>1/2</sub> of USP-46. A point-mutated WDR-48 variant that disrupts binding to USP-46 was unable to promote USP-46 abundance <i>in vivo</i> Finally, siRNA-mediated knockdown of <i>wdr48</i> destabilizes USP46 in mammalian cells. Together, these results support a model in which WDR-48 binds and stabilizes USP-46 protein levels by preventing the ubiquitination and degradation of USP-46 in the proteasome. Given that a large number of USPs interact with WDR proteins, we propose that stabilization of DUBs by their interacting WDR proteins may be a conserved and widely used mechanism that controls DUB availability and function."	1
"30824372"	"P-TEFb Activation by RBM7 Shapes a Pro-survival Transcriptional Response to Genotoxic Stress.DNA damage response (DDR) involves dramatic transcriptional alterations, the mechanisms of which remain ill defined. Here, we show that following genotoxic stress, the RNA-binding motif protein 7 (RBM7) stimulates RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription and promotes cell viability by activating the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) via its release from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (7SK snRNP). This is mediated by activation of p38<sup>MAPK</sup>, which triggers enhanced binding of RBM7 with core subunits of 7SK snRNP. In turn, P-TEFb relocates to chromatin to induce transcription of short units, including key DDR genes and multiple classes of non-coding RNAs. Critically, interfering with the axis of RBM7 and P-TEFb provokes cellular hypersensitivity to DNA-damage-inducing agents due to activation of apoptosis. Our work uncovers the importance of stress-dependent stimulation of Pol II pause release, which enables a pro-survival transcriptional response that is crucial for cell fate upon genotoxic insult."	1
"31173721"	"A Nutrition-Longevity Tradeoff Enforced by Innate Immunity.Dietary restriction (DR) extends lifespan in multiple animal species, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. A recent study published in Cell Metabolism by Wu et al. (2019) shows that DR represses an evolutionarily conserved p38 MAPK pathway involved in innate immunity, leading to diminished expression of p38 MAPK-regulated genes and extended lifespan."	0
"32492431"	"Cas12a Base Editors Induce Efficient and Specific Editing with Low DNA Damage Response.The advent of base editors (BEs) holds great potential for correcting pathogenic-related point mutations to treat relevant diseases. However, Cas9 nickase (nCas9)-derived BEs lead to DNA double-strand breaks, which can trigger unwanted DNA damage response (DDR). Here, we show that the original version of catalytically dead Cas12a (dCas12a)-conjugated BEs induce a basal level of DNA breaks and minimally activate DDR proteins, including H2AX, ATM, ATR, and p53. By fusing dCas12a with engineered human apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3A (APOBEC3A), we further develop the BEACON (base editing induced by human APOBEC3A and Cas12a without DNA break) system to achieve enhanced deamination efficiency and editing specificity. Efficient C-to-T editing is achieved by BEACON in mammalian cells at levels comparable to AncBE4max, with only low levels of DDR and minimal RNA off-target mutations. Importantly, BEACON induces in vivo base editing in mouse embryos, and targeted C-to-T conversions are detected in F0 mice."	0
"32294449"	"Cell Metabolic Alterations due to Mcph1 Mutation in Microcephaly.A distinctive feature of neocortical development is the highly coordinated production of different progenitor cell subtypes, which are critical for ensuring adequate neurogenic outcome and the development of normal neocortical size. To further understand the mechanisms that underlie neocortical growth, we focused our studies on the microcephaly gene Mcph1, and we report here that Mcph1 (1) exerts its functions in rapidly dividing apical radial glial cells (aRGCs) during mouse neocortical development stages that precede indirect neurogenesis; (2) is expressed at mitochondria; and (3) controls the proper proliferation and survival of RGCs, potentially through crosstalk with cellular metabolic pathways involving the stimulation of mitochondrial activity via VDAC1/GRP75 and AKT/HK2/VDAC1 and glutaminolysis via ATF4/PCK2. We currently report the description of a MCPH-gene implication in the interplay between bioenergetic pathways and neocortical growth, thus pointing to alterations of cellular metabolic pathways, in particular glutaminolysis, as a possible cause of microcephalic pathogenesis."	1
"32561545"	"Human RTEL1 associates with Poldip3 to facilitate responses to replication stress and R-loop resolution.RTEL1 helicase is a component of DNA repair and telomere maintenance machineries. While RTEL1's role in DNA replication is emerging, how RTEL1 preserves genomic stability during replication remains elusive. Here we used a range of proteomic, biochemical, cell, and molecular biology and gene editing approaches to provide further insights into potential role(s) of RTEL1 in DNA replication and genome integrity maintenance. Our results from complementary human cell culture models established that RTEL1 and the Polδ subunit Poldip3 form a complex and are/function mutually dependent in chromatin binding after replication stress. Loss of RTEL1 and Poldip3 leads to marked R-loop accumulation that is confined to sites of active replication, enhances endogenous replication stress, and fuels ensuing genomic instability. The impact of depleting RTEL1 and Poldip3 is epistatic, consistent with our proposed concept of these two proteins operating in a shared pathway involved in DNA replication control under stress conditions. Overall, our data highlight a previously unsuspected role of RTEL1 and Poldip3 in R-loop suppression at genomic regions where transcription and replication intersect, with implications for human diseases including cancer."	1
"32553170"	"Decoding the Transcriptional Response to Ischemic Stroke in Young and Aged Mouse Brain.Ischemic stroke is a well-recognized disease of aging, yet it is unclear how the age-dependent vulnerability occurs and what are the underlying mechanisms. To address these issues, we perform a comprehensive RNA-seq analysis of aging, ischemic stroke, and their interaction in 3- and 18-month-old mice. We assess differential gene expression across injury status and age, estimate cell type proportion changes, assay the results against a range of transcriptional signatures from the literature, and perform unsupervised co-expression analysis, identifying modules of genes with varying response to injury. We uncover downregulation of axonal and synaptic maintenance genetic program, and increased activation of type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling following stroke in aged mice. Together, these results paint a picture of ischemic stroke as a complex age-related disease and provide insights into interaction of aging and stroke on cellular and molecular level."	0
"31732457"	"Regulation of Phosphoribosyl-Linked Serine Ubiquitination by Deubiquitinases DupA and DupB.The family of bacterial SidE enzymes catalyzes non-canonical phosphoribosyl-linked (PR) serine ubiquitination and promotes infectivity of Legionella pneumophila. Here, we describe identification of two bacterial effectors that reverse PR ubiquitination and are thus named deubiquitinases for PR ubiquitination (DUPs; DupA and DupB). Structural analyses revealed that DupA and SidE ubiquitin ligases harbor a highly homologous catalytic phosphodiesterase (PDE) domain. However, unlike SidE ubiquitin ligases, DupA displays increased affinity to PR-ubiquitinated substrates, which allows DupA to cleave PR ubiquitin from substrates. Interfering with DupA-ubiquitin binding switches its activity toward SidE-type ligase. Given the high affinity of DupA to PR-ubiquitinated substrates, we exploited a catalytically inactive DupA mutant to trap and identify more than 180 PR-ubiquitinated host proteins in Legionella-infected cells. Proteins involved in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) fragmentation and membrane recruitment to Legionella-containing vacuoles (LCV) emerged as major SidE targets. The global map of PR-ubiquitinated substrates provides critical insights into host-pathogen interactions during Legionella infection."	0
"32130901"	"Continuous Microevolution Accelerates Disease Progression during Sequential Episodes of Infection.Bacteria adapt to dynamic changes in the host during chronic and recurrent infections. Bacterial microevolution is one type of adaptation that imparts a selective advantage. We hypothesize that recurrent episodes of disease promote microevolution through genetic mutations that modulate disease severity. We use a pre-clinical model of otitis media (OM) to determine the potential role for microevolution of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) during sequential episodes of disease. Whole genome sequencing reveals microevolution of hemoglobin binding and lipooligosaccharide (LOS) biosynthesis genes, suggesting that adaptation of these systems is critical for infection. These OM-adapted strains promote increased biofilm formation, inflammation, stromal fibrosis, and an increased propensity to form intracellular bacterial communities (IBCs). Remarkably, IBCs remain for at least one month following clinical resolution of infection, suggesting an intracellular reservoir as a nidus for recurrent OM. Additional approaches for therapeutic design tailored to combat this burdensome disease will arise from these studies."	0
"32698010"	"mTORC1 Signaling Controls TLR2-Mediated T-Cell Activation by Inducing TIRAP Expression.Effector, but not naïve, T cells are activated by toll-like receptor-2 (TLR2) stimulation, leading to cytokine production and proliferation. We found that the differential response is attributable to the lack of expression of the adaptor protein TIRAP in naive T cells. TIRAP expression is induced upon T-cell receptor (TCR) stimulation and sustained by strong interleukin-2 (IL-2) signals. Expression of TIRAP requires TCR- and IL-2-induced mTORC1 activation. TLR2 stimulation induced the activation of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and ERK, leading to much higher production of interferon-γ (IFN-γ) by T helper 1 (Th1) cells cultured in a high concentration of IL-2 than by those cultured in a low concentration of IL-2. In contrast, TLR2 stimulation induces mTORC1 activation through TIRAP, which is essential for TLR2-mediated IFN-γ production. These data demonstrate that the mTORC1 signal confers the response to TLR2 signaling by inducing TIRAP expression and that the TIRAP-mTORC1 axis is critical for TLR2-mediated IFN-γ production by effector T cells."	1
"32668239"	"The Apparent Requirement for Protein Synthesis during G2 Phase Is due to Checkpoint Activation.Protein synthesis inhibitors (e.g., cycloheximide) block mitotic entry, suggesting that cell cycle progression requires protein synthesis until right before mitosis. However, cycloheximide is also known to activate p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), which can delay mitotic entry through a G2/M checkpoint. Here, we ask whether checkpoint activation or a requirement for protein synthesis is responsible for the cycloheximide effect. We find that p38 inhibitors prevent cycloheximide-treated cells from arresting in G2 phase and that G2 duration is normal in approximately half of these cells. The Wee1 inhibitor MK-1775 and Wee1/Myt1 inhibitor PD0166285 also prevent cycloheximide from blocking mitotic entry, raising the possibility that Wee1 and/or Myt1 mediate the cycloheximide-induced G2 arrest. Thus, protein synthesis during G2 phase is not required for mitotic entry, at least when the p38 checkpoint pathway is abrogated. However, M phase progression is delayed in cycloheximide-plus-kinase-inhibitor-treated cells, emphasizing the different requirements of protein synthesis for timely entry and completion of mitosis."	1
"32483387"	"Chromosomal translocation-derived aberrant Rab22a drives metastasis of osteosarcoma.Osteosarcoma is a type of aggressive malignant bone tumour that frequently metastasizes to lungs, resulting in poor prognosis. However, the molecular mechanisms of lung metastasis of osteosarcoma remain poorly understood. Here we identify exon-intron fusion genes in osteosarcoma cell lines and tissues. These fusion genes are derived from chromosomal translocations that juxtapose the coding region for amino acids 1-38 of Rab22a (Rab22a<sup>1-38</sup>) with multiple inverted introns and untranslated regions of chromosome 20. The resulting translation products, designated Rab22a-NeoFs, acquire the ability to drive lung metastasis of osteosarcoma. The Rab22a<sup>1-38</sup> moiety governs the function of Rab22a-NeoFs by binding to SmgGDS-607, a GTP-GDP exchange factor of RhoA. This association facilitates the release of GTP-bound RhoA from SmgGDS-607, which induces increased activity of RhoA and promotes metastasis. Disrupting the interaction between Rab22a-NeoF1 and SmgGDS-607 with a synthetic peptide prevents lung metastasis in an orthotopic model of osteosarcoma. Our findings may provide a promising strategy for a subset of osteosarcoma patients with lung metastases."	0
"31494035"	"RNase L Reprograms Translation by Widespread mRNA Turnover Escaped by Antiviral mRNAs.In response to foreign and endogenous double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), protein kinase R (PKR) and ribonuclease L (RNase L) reprogram translation in mammalian cells. PKR inhibits translation initiation through eIF2α phosphorylation, which triggers stress granule (SG) formation and promotes translation of stress responsive mRNAs. The mechanisms of RNase L-driven translation repression, its contribution to SG assembly, and its regulation of dsRNA stress-induced mRNAs are unknown. We demonstrate that RNase L drives translational shut-off in response to dsRNA by promoting widespread turnover of mRNAs. This alters stress granule assembly and reprograms translation by allowing translation of mRNAs resistant to RNase L degradation, including numerous antiviral mRNAs such as interferon (IFN)-β. Individual cells differentially activate dsRNA responses revealing variation that can affect cellular outcomes. This identifies bulk mRNA degradation and the resistance of antiviral mRNAs as the mechanism by which RNase L reprograms translation in response to dsRNA."	0
"32017896"	"LARP7-Mediated U6 snRNA Modification Ensures Splicing Fidelity and Spermatogenesis in Mice.U6 snRNA, as an essential component of the catalytic core of the pre-mRNA processing spliceosome, is heavily modified post-transcriptionally, with 2'-O-methylation being most common. The role of these modifications in pre-mRNA splicing as well as their physiological function in mammals have remained largely unclear. Here we report that the La-related protein LARP7 functions as a critical cofactor for 2'-O-methylation of U6 in mouse male germ cells. Mechanistically, LARP7 promotes U6 loading onto box C/D snoRNP, facilitating U6 2'-O-methylation by box C/D snoRNP. Importantly, ablation of LARP7 in the male germline causes defective U6 2'-O-methylation, massive alterations in pre-mRNA splicing, and spermatogenic failure in mice, which can be rescued by ectopic expression of wild-type LARP7 but not an U6-loading-deficient mutant LARP7. Our data uncover a novel role of LARP7 in regulating U6 2'-O-methylation and demonstrate the functional requirement of such modification for splicing fidelity and spermatogenesis in mice."	1
"30979586"	"ULK1 and ULK2 Regulate Stress Granule Disassembly Through Phosphorylation and Activation of VCP/p97.Disturbances in autophagy and stress granule dynamics have been implicated as potential mechanisms underlying inclusion body myopathy (IBM) and related disorders. Yet the roles of core autophagy proteins in IBM and stress granule dynamics remain poorly characterized. Here, we demonstrate that disrupted expression of the core autophagy proteins ULK1 and ULK2 in mice causes a vacuolar myopathy with ubiquitin and TDP-43-positive inclusions; this myopathy is similar to that caused by VCP/p97 mutations, the most common cause of familial IBM. Mechanistically, we show that ULK1/2 localize to stress granules and phosphorylate VCP, thereby increasing VCP's activity and ability to disassemble stress granules. These data suggest that VCP dysregulation and defective stress granule disassembly contribute to IBM-like disease in Ulk1/2-deficient mice. In addition, stress granule disassembly is accelerated by an ULK1/2 agonist, suggesting ULK1/2 as targets for exploiting the higher-order regulation of stress granules for therapeutic intervention of IBM and related disorders."	1
"31932165"	"HORMA Domain Proteins and a Trip13-like ATPase Regulate Bacterial cGAS-like Enzymes to Mediate Bacteriophage Immunity.Bacteria are continually challenged by foreign invaders, including bacteriophages, and have evolved a variety of defenses against these invaders. Here, we describe the structural and biochemical mechanisms of a bacteriophage immunity pathway found in a broad array of bacteria, including E. coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. This pathway uses eukaryotic-like HORMA domain proteins that recognize specific peptides, then bind and activate a cGAS/DncV-like nucleotidyltransferase (CD-NTase) to generate a cyclic triadenylate (cAAA) second messenger; cAAA in turn activates an endonuclease effector, NucC. Signaling is attenuated by a homolog of the AAA+ ATPase Pch2/TRIP13, which binds and disassembles the active HORMA-CD-NTase complex. When expressed in non-pathogenic E. coli, this pathway confers immunity against bacteriophage λ through an abortive infection mechanism. Our findings reveal the molecular mechanisms of a bacterial defense pathway integrating a cGAS-like nucleotidyltransferase with HORMA domain proteins for threat sensing through protein detection and negative regulation by a Trip13 ATPase."	0
"31914402"	"TRIM32/USP11 Balances ARID1A Stability and the Oncogenic/Tumor-Suppressive Status of Squamous Cell Carcinoma.Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is an aggressive epithelial malignancy, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying SCC development are elusive. ARID1A is frequently mutated in various cancer types, but both mutation rates and expression levels of ARID1A are ubiquitously low in SCCs. Here, we reveal that excessive protein degradation mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) contributes to the loss of ARID1A expression in SCC. We identify that the E3 ligase TRIM32 and the deubiquitinase USP11 play key roles in controlling ARID1A stability. TRIM32 depletion inhibits SCC cell proliferation, metastasis, and chemoresistance by stabilizing ARID1A, while USP11 depletion promotes SCC development by promoting ARID1A degradation. We show that syndecan-2 (SDC2) is the downstream target of both ARID1A and USP11 and that SDC2 depletion abolishes the oncogenic function of ARID1A loss. In summary, our data reveal UPS-mediated protein degradation as a mechanism underlying ARID1A loss and propose an important role for the TRIM32/USP11-ARID1A-SDC2 axis in SCC."	1
"31031083"	"METTL1 Promotes let-7 MicroRNA Processing via m7G Methylation.7-methylguanosine (m7G) is present at mRNA caps and at defined internal positions within tRNAs and rRNAs. However, its detection within low-abundance mRNAs and microRNAs (miRNAs) has been hampered by a lack of sensitive detection strategies. Here, we adapt a chemical reactivity assay to detect internal m7G in miRNAs. Using this technique (Borohydride Reduction sequencing [BoRed-seq]) alongside RNA immunoprecipitation, we identify m7G within a subset of miRNAs that inhibit cell migration. We show that the METTL1 methyltransferase mediates m7G methylation within miRNAs and that this enzyme regulates cell migration via its catalytic activity. Using refined mass spectrometry methods, we map m7G to a single guanosine within the let-7e-5p miRNA. We show that METTL1-mediated methylation augments let-7 miRNA processing by disrupting an inhibitory secondary structure within the primary miRNA transcript (pri-miRNA). These results identify METTL1-dependent N7-methylation of guanosine as a new RNA modification pathway that regulates miRNA structure, biogenesis, and cell migration."	0
"32111741"	"The Parkinson's disease-associated kinase LRRK2 regulates genes required for cell adhesion, polarization, and chemotaxis in activated murine macrophages.Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (<i>LRRK2</i>) encodes a complex protein that includes kinase and GTPase domains. Genome-wide association studies have identified dominant <i>LRRK2</i> alleles that predispose their carriers to late-onset idiotypic Parkinson's disease (PD) and also to autoimmune disorders such as Crohn's disease. Considerable evidence indicates that PD initiation and progression involve activation of innate immune functions in microglia, which are brain-resident macrophages. Here we asked whether LRRK2 modifies inflammatory signaling and how this modification might contribute to PD and Crohn's disease. We used RNA-Seq-based high-resolution transcriptomics to compare gene expression in activated primary macrophages derived from WT and <i>Lrrk2</i> knockout mice. Remarkably, expression of a single gene, Rap guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (<i>Rapgef3</i>), was strongly up-regulated in the absence of LRRK2 and down-regulated in its presence. We observed similar regulation of <i>Rapgef3</i> expression in cells treated with a highly specific inhibitor of LRRK2 protein kinase activity. <i>Rapgef3</i> encodes an exchange protein, activated by cAMP 1 (EPAC-1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor that activates the small GTPase Rap-1. Rap-1 mediates cell adhesion, polarization, and directional motility, and our results indicate that LRRK2 modulates chemotaxis of microglia and macrophages. Dominant PD-associated <i>LRRK2</i> alleles may suppress EPAC-1 activity, further restricting motility and preventing efficient migration of microglia to sites of neuronal damage. Functional analysis <i>in vivo</i> in a subclinical infection model also indicated that Lrrk2 subtly modifies the inflammatory response. These results indicate that LRRK2 modulates the expression of genes involved in murine immune cell chemotaxis."	1
"32268099"	"PGC1α Controls Sucrose Taste Sensitization in Drosophila.Perceived palatability of food controls caloric intake. Sweet taste is the primary means of detecting the carbohydrate content of food. Surprisingly, sweet taste sensitivity is responsive to extrinsic factors like diet, and this occurs by unknown mechanisms. Here, we describe an unbiased proteomic investigation into sweet taste sensitivity in the fruit fly. We identify a dopamine/cyclic AMP (cAMP)/CREB axis acting within sweet taste neurons that controls taste perception but is largely dispensable for acute taste transduction. This pathway modulates sweet taste perception in response to both sensory- and nutrient-restricted diets and converges on PGC1α, a critical regulator of metabolic health and lifespan. By electrophysiology, we found that enhanced sucrose taste sensitivity was the result of heightened sweet taste intensity and that PGC1α was both necessary and sufficient for this effect. Together, we provide the first molecular insight into how diet-induced taste perception is regulated within the sweet taste neuron."	0
"31495563"	"Transcriptional Responses to IFN-γ Require Mediator Kinase-Dependent Pause Release and Mechanistically Distinct CDK8 and CDK19 Functions.Transcriptional responses to external stimuli remain poorly understood. Using global nuclear run-on followed by sequencing (GRO-seq) and precision nuclear run-on sequencing (PRO-seq), we show that CDK8 kinase activity promotes RNA polymerase II pause release in response to interferon-γ (IFN-γ), a universal cytokine involved in immunity and tumor surveillance. The Mediator kinase module contains CDK8 or CDK19, which are presumed to be functionally redundant. We implemented cortistatin A, chemical genetics, transcriptomics, and other methods to decouple their function while assessing enzymatic versus structural roles. Unexpectedly, CDK8 and CDK19 regulated different gene sets via distinct mechanisms. CDK8-dependent regulation required its kinase activity, whereas CDK19 governed IFN-γ responses through its scaffolding function (i.e., it was kinase independent). Accordingly, CDK8, not CDK19, phosphorylates the STAT1 transcription factor (TF) during IFN-γ stimulation, and CDK8 kinase inhibition blocked activation of JAK-STAT pathway TFs. Cytokines such as IFN-γ rapidly mobilize TFs to ""reprogram"" cellular transcription; our results implicate CDK8 and CDK19 as essential for this transcriptional reprogramming."	1
"32783934"	"Structure in Neural Activity during Observed and Executed Movements Is Shared at the Neural Population Level, Not in Single Neurons.In multiple cortical areas, including the motor cortex, neurons have similar firing rate statistics whether we observe or execute movements. These ""congruent"" neurons are hypothesized to support action understanding by participating in a neural circuit consistently activated in both observed and executed movements. We examined this hypothesis by analyzing neural population structure and dynamics between observed and executed movements. We find that observed and executed movements exhibit similar neural population covariation in a shared subspace capturing significant neural variance. Further, neural dynamics are more similar between observed and executed movements within the shared subspace than outside it. Finally, we find that this shared subspace has a heterogeneous composition of congruent and incongruent neurons. Together, these results argue that similar neural covariation and dynamics between observed and executed movements do not occur via activation of a subpopulation of congruent single neurons, but through consistent temporal activation of a heterogeneous neural population."	0
"32647011"	"The key royal jelly component 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid protects against bone loss by inhibiting NF-κB signaling downstream of FFAR4.The supplementation of royal jelly (RJ) is known to provide a variety of health benefits, including anti-inflammatory and anti-obesity effects. RJ treatment also reportedly protects against bone loss, but no single factor in RJ has yet been identified as an anti-osteoporosis agent. Here we fractionated RJ and identified 10-hydroxy-2-decenoic acid (10H2DA) as a key component involved in inhibiting osteoclastogenesis based on mass spectrometric analysis. We further demonstrated free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4) as directly interacting with 10H2DA; binding of 10H2DA to FFAR4 on osteoclasts inhibited receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) ligand (RANKL)-induced activation of NF-κB signaling, thereby attenuating the induction of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) c1, a key transcription factor for osteoclastogenesis. Oral administration of 10H2DA attenuated bone resorption in ovariectomized mice. These results suggest a potential therapeutic approach of targeting osteoclast differentiation by the supplementation of RJ, and specifically 10H2DA, in cases of pathological bone loss such as occur in postmenopausal osteoporosis."	1
"32380061"	"Discovery of Widespread Host Protein Interactions with the Pre-replicated Genome of CHIKV Using VIR-CLASP.The primary interactions between incoming viral RNA genomes and host proteins are crucial to infection and immunity. Until now, the ability to study these events was lacking. We developed viral cross-linking and solid-phase purification (VIR-CLASP) to characterize the earliest interactions between viral RNA and cellular proteins. We investigated the infection of human cells using Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) and influenza A virus and identified hundreds of direct RNA-protein interactions. Here, we explore the biological impact of three protein classes that bind CHIKV RNA within minutes of infection. We find CHIKV RNA binds and hijacks the lipid-modifying enzyme fatty acid synthase (FASN) for pro-viral activity. We show that CHIKV genomes are N<sup>6</sup>-methyladenosine modified, and YTHDF1 binds and suppresses CHIKV replication. Finally, we find that the innate immune DNA sensor IFI16 associates with CHIKV RNA, reducing viral replication and maturation. Our findings have direct applicability to the investigation of potentially all RNA viruses."	0
"32755570"	"The MARCH6-SQLE Axis Controls Endothelial Cholesterol Homeostasis and Angiogenic Sprouting.The endothelial monolayer forms a barrier between the lumen of blood vessels and the underlying tissues. Stable VE-cadherin-based adherens junctions are essential for maintaining this barrier, whereas their remodeling is required for angiogenesis in health and disease. Here, we position the ERAD-associated ubiquitin ligase MARCH6 as a determinant of angiogenic sprouting and barrier integrity through its ability to promote the degradation of the rate-limiting cholesterol biosynthetic enzyme squalene epoxidase (SQLE). Accordingly, MARCHF6 ablation in endothelial cells increases SQLE protein and cholesterol load. This leads to altered membrane order, disorganized adherens junctions, decreased endothelial barrier function, and impaired SQLE-dependent sprouting angiogenesis. Akin to MARCHF6 silencing, the overexpression of SQLE impairs angiogenesis. However, angiogenesis is also attenuated when SQLE is silenced, indicating that fine-tuning cholesterol biosynthesis is a determinant of healthy endothelial function. In summary, we propose a mechanistic link between regulation of cholesterol homeostasis by the MARCH6-SQLE axis and endothelial integrity and angiogenesis."	1
"32320654"	"Cellular Importin-α3 Expression Dynamics in the Lung Regulate Antiviral Response Pathways against Influenza A Virus Infection.Importin-α adaptor proteins orchestrate dynamic nuclear transport processes involved in cellular homeostasis. Here, we show that importin-α3, one of the main NF-κB transporters, is the most abundantly expressed classical nuclear transport factor in the mammalian respiratory tract. Importin-α3 promoter activity is regulated by TNF-α-induced NF-κB in a concentration-dependent manner. High-level TNF-α-inducing highly pathogenic avian influenza A viruses (HPAIVs) isolated from fatal human cases harboring human-type polymerase signatures (PB2 627K, 701N) significantly downregulate importin-α3 mRNA expression in primary lung cells. Importin-α3 depletion is restored upon back-mutating the HPAIV polymerase into an avian-type signature (PB2 627E, 701D) that can no longer induce high TNF-α levels. Importin-α3-deficient mice show reduced NF-κB-activated antiviral gene expression and increased influenza lethality. Thus, importin-α3 plays a key role in antiviral immunity against influenza. Lifting the bottleneck in importin-α3 availability in the lung might provide a new strategy to combat respiratory virus infections."	1
"30846317"	"CHP1 Regulates Compartmentalized Glycerolipid Synthesis by Activating GPAT4.Cells require a constant supply of fatty acids to survive and proliferate. Fatty acids incorporate into membrane and storage glycerolipids through a series of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) enzymes, but how these enzymes are regulated is not well understood. Here, using a combination of CRISPR-based genetic screens and unbiased lipidomics, we identified calcineurin B homologous protein 1 (CHP1) as a major regulator of ER glycerolipid synthesis. Loss of CHP1 severely reduces fatty acid incorporation and storage in mammalian cells and invertebrates. Mechanistically, CHP1 binds and activates GPAT4, which catalyzes the initial rate-limiting step in glycerolipid synthesis. GPAT4 activity requires CHP1 to be N-myristoylated, forming a key molecular interface between the two proteins. Interestingly, upon CHP1 loss, the peroxisomal enzyme, GNPAT, partially compensates for the loss of ER lipid synthesis, enabling cell proliferation. Thus, our work identifies a conserved regulator of glycerolipid metabolism and reveals plasticity in lipid synthesis of proliferating cells."	1
"32610139"	"Atrx Deletion in Neurons Leads to Sexually Dimorphic Dysregulation of miR-137 and Spatial Learning and Memory Deficits.ATRX gene mutations have been identified in syndromic and non-syndromic intellectual disabilities in humans. ATRX is known to maintain genomic stability in neuroprogenitor cells, but its function in differentiated neurons and memory processes remains largely unresolved. Here, we show that the deletion of neuronal Atrx in mice leads to distinct hippocampal structural defects, fewer presynaptic vesicles, and an enlarged postsynaptic area at CA1 apical dendrite-axon junctions. We identify male-specific impairments in long-term contextual memory and in synaptic gene expression, linked to altered miR-137 levels. We show that ATRX directly binds to the miR-137 locus and that the enrichment of the suppressive histone mark H3K27me3 is significantly reduced upon the loss of ATRX. We conclude that the ablation of ATRX in excitatory forebrain neurons leads to sexually dimorphic effects on miR-137 expression and on spatial memory, identifying a potential therapeutic target for neurological defects caused by ATRX dysfunction."	1
"32610117"	"The Leucine-Rich Repeat Region of CARMIL1 Regulates IL-1-Mediated ERK Activation, MMP Expression, and Collagen Degradation.CARMILs are large, multidomain, membrane-associated proteins that regulate actin assembly and Rho-family GTPases, but their role in inflammatory signaling is not defined. Tandem mass tag mass spectrometry indicated that, in fibroblasts, CARMIL1 associates with interleukin (IL)-1 signaling molecules. Immunoprecipitation of cells transfected with CARMIL1 mutants showed that the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) region of CARMIL1 associates with IL-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK). Knockout of CARMIL1 by CRISPR-Cas9 reduced IL-1-induced ERK activation by 72% and MMP3 expression by 40%. Compared with CARMIL1 wild-type (WT), cells expressing mutant CARMIL1 lacking its LRR domain exhibited 45% lower ERK activation and 40% lower MMP3 expression. In fibroblasts transduced with a cell-permeable, TAT CARMIL1 peptide that competed with IL-1R1 and IRAK binding to the LRR of CARMIL1, collagen degradation was reduced by 43%. As the LRR of CARMIL1 evidently regulates IL-1 signaling, CARMIL1 could become a target for anti-inflammatory drug development."	1
"32075731"	"Small Molecule Inhibition of GSK-3 Specifically Inhibits the Transcription of Inhibitory Co-receptor LAG-3 for Enhanced Anti-tumor Immunity.Immune checkpoint blockade using antibodies against negative co-receptors such as cytolytic T cell antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) has seen much success treating cancer. However, most patients are still not cured, underscoring the need for improved treatments and the possible development of small molecule inhibitors (SMIs) for improved immunotherapy. We previously showed that glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3α/β is a central regulator of PD-1 expression, where GSK-3 inhibition down-regulates PD-1 and enhances CD8<sup>+</sup> cytolytic T cell (CTL) function, reducing viral infections and tumor growth. Here, we demonstrate that GSK-3 also negatively regulates Lymphocyte Activation Gene-3 (LAG-3) expression on CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells. GSK-3 SMIs are more effective than LAG-3 blockade alone in suppressing B16 melanoma growth, while their combination resulted in enhanced tumor clearance. This was linked to increased expression of the transcription factor, Tbet, which bound the LAG-3 promoter, inhibiting its transcription, and to increased granzyme B and interferon-γ1 expression. Overall, we describe a small molecule approach to inhibit LAG-3, resulting in enhanced anti-tumor immunity."	1
"31586547"	"γ-6-Phosphogluconolactone, a Byproduct of the Oxidative Pentose Phosphate Pathway, Contributes to AMPK Activation through Inhibition of PP2A.The oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (oxiPPP) contributes to cell metabolism through not only the production of metabolic intermediates and reductive NADPH but also inhibition of LKB1-AMPK signaling by ribulose-5-phosphate (Ru-5-P), the product of the third oxiPPP enzyme 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD). However, we found that knockdown of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), the first oxiPPP enzyme, did not affect AMPK activation despite decreased Ru-5-P and subsequent LKB1 activation, due to enhanced activity of PP2A, the upstream phosphatase of AMPK. In contrast, knockdown of 6PGD or 6-phosphogluconolactonase (PGLS), the second oxiPPP enzyme, reduced PP2A activity. Mechanistically, knockdown of G6PD or PGLS decreased or increased 6-phosphogluconolactone level, respectively, which enhanced the inhibitory phosphorylation of PP2A by Src. Furthermore, γ-6-phosphogluconolactone, an oxiPPP byproduct with unknown function generated through intramolecular rearrangement of δ-6-phosphogluconolactone, the only substrate of PGLS, bound to Src and enhanced PP2A recruitment. Together, oxiPPP regulates AMPK homeostasis by balancing the opposing LKB1 and PP2A."	1
"31940493"	"FOXD3 Regulates VISTA Expression in Melanoma.Immune checkpoint inhibitors have improved patient survival in melanoma, but the innate resistance of many patients necessitates the investigation of alternative immune targets. Many immune checkpoint proteins lack proper characterization, including V-domain Ig suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA). VISTA expression on immune cells can suppress T cell activity; however, few studies have investigated its expression and regulation in cancer cells. In this study, we observe that VISTA is expressed in melanoma patient samples and cell lines. Tumor cell-specific expression of VISTA promotes tumor onset in vivo, associated with increased intratumoral T regulatory cells, and enhanced PDL-1 expression on tumor-infiltrating macrophages. VISTA transcript levels are regulated by the stemness factor Forkhead box D3 (FOXD3). BRAF inhibition upregulates FOXD3 and reduces VISTA expression. Overall, this study demonstrates melanoma cell expression of VISTA and its regulation by FOXD3, contributing to the rationale for therapeutic strategies that combine targeted inhibitors with immune checkpoint blockade."	1
"32937120"	"A Chemogenetic Tool that Enables Functional Neural Circuit Analysis.Chemogenetics enables manipulation of neuronal activity in experimental animals. While providing information about the transduced neuron expressing a ligand-activated molecule, chemogenetics does not provide understanding about the antecedent circuit that drives that neuron's activity. For current approaches, this is not feasible, because the activating molecules are not genetically encoded. The insect allatostatin/allatostatin receptor system, a highly specific, powerful inhibitory chemogenetic approach, has this advantage, because the ligand, being a peptide, is genetically encoded. We developed viral vector-based systems to express biologically active allatostatin in neurons in vivo and allatostatin receptors in subpopulations of postsynaptic neurons. We demonstrate that activity-dependent release of allatostatin induces inhibition of allatostatin receptor-expressing neurons. We validate the approach in the vagal viscerosensory system where inhibitory, rather than the usual excitatory, viscerosensory input leads to sustained decreases in baroreceptor reflex sensitivity and bodyweight."	0
"31883951"	"Molecular Wiring of a Mitochondrial Translational Feedback Loop.The mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation system comprises complexes assembled from subunits derived from mitochondrial and nuclear gene expression. Both genetic systems are coordinated by feedback loops, which control the synthesis of specific mitochondrial encoded subunits. Here, we studied how this occurs in the case of cytochrome b, a key subunit of mitochondrial complex III. Our data suggest the presence of a molecular rheostat consisting of two translational activators, Cbp3-Cbp6 and Cbs1, which operates at the mitoribosomal tunnel exit to connect translational output with assembly efficiency. When Cbp3-Cbp6 is engaged in assembly of cytochrome b, Cbs1 binds to the tunnel exit to sequester the cytochrome b-encoding mRNA, repressing its translation. After mediating complex III assembly, binding of Cbp3-Cbp6 to the tunnel exit replaces Cbs1 and the bound mRNA to permit cytochrome b synthesis. Collectively, the data indicate the molecular wiring of a feedback loop to regulate synthesis of a mitochondrial encoded protein."	0
"32640220"	"WRNIP1 Is Recruited to DNA Interstrand Crosslinks and Promotes Repair.The Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway repairs DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs). Many FA proteins are recruited to ICLs in a timely fashion so that coordinated repair can occur. However, the mechanism of this process is poorly understood. Here, we report the purification of a FANCD2-containing protein complex with multiple subunits, including WRNIP1. Using live-cell imaging, we show that WRNIP1 is recruited to ICLs quickly after their appearance, promoting repair. The observed recruitment facilitates subsequent recruitment of the FANCD2/FANCI complex. Depletion of WRNIP1 sensitizes cells to ICL-forming drugs. We find that ubiquitination of WRNIP1 and the activity of its UBZ domain are required to facilitate recruitment of FANCD2/FANCI and promote repair. Altogether, we describe a mechanism by which WRNIP1 is recruited rapidly to ICLs, resulting in chromatin loading of the FANCD2/FANCI complex in an unusual process entailing ubiquitination of WRNIP1 and the activity of its integral UBZ domain."	1
"32049000"	"Partial Inhibition of RNA Polymerase I Promotes Animal Health and Longevity.Health and survival in old age can be improved by changes in gene expression. RNA polymerase (Pol) I is the essential, conserved enzyme whose task is to generate the pre-ribosomal RNA (rRNA). We find that reducing the levels of Pol I activity is sufficient to extend lifespan in the fruit fly. This effect can be recapitulated by partial, adult-restricted inhibition, with both enterocytes and stem cells of the adult midgut emerging as important cell types. In stem cells, Pol I appears to act in the same longevity pathway as Pol III, implicating rRNA synthesis in these cells as the key lifespan determinant. Importantly, reduction in Pol I activity delays broad, age-related impairment and pathology, improving the function of diverse organ systems. Hence, our study shows that Pol I activity in the adult drives systemic, age-related decline in animal health and anticipates mortality."	0
"32375027"	"Systematic Analysis of Targets of Pumilio-Mediated mRNA Decay Reveals that PUM1 Repression by DNA Damage Activates Translesion Synthesis.RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play a pivotal role in gene expression by modulating the stability of transcripts. However, the identification of degradation target mRNAs of RBPs remains difficult. By the combined analysis of transcriptome-wide mRNA stabilities and the binding of mRNAs to human Pumilio 1 (PUM1), we identify 48 mRNAs that both bind to PUM1 and exhibit PUM1-dependent degradation. Analysis of changes in the abundance of PUM1 and its degradation target mRNAs in RNA-seq data indicate that DNA-damaging agents negatively regulate PUM1-mediated mRNA decay. Cells exposed to cisplatin have reduced PUM1 abundance and increased PCNA and UBE2A mRNAs encoding proteins involved in DNA damage tolerance by translesion synthesis (TLS). Cells overexpressing PUM1 exhibit impaired DNA synthesis and TLS and increased sensitivity to the cytotoxic effect of cisplatin. Thus, our method identifies target mRNAs of PUM1-mediated decay and reveals that cells respond to DNA damage by inhibiting PUM1-mediated mRNA decay to activate TLS."	1
"30853401"	"Spatiotemporal Control of ULK1 Activation by NDP52 and TBK1 during Selective Autophagy.Selective autophagy recycles damaged organelles and clears intracellular pathogens to prevent their aberrant accumulation. How ULK1 kinase is targeted and activated during selective autophagic events remains to be elucidated. In this study, we used chemically inducible dimerization (CID) assays in tandem with CRISPR KO lines to systematically analyze the molecular basis of selective autophagosome biogenesis. We demonstrate that ectopic placement of NDP52 on mitochondria or peroxisomes is sufficient to initiate selective autophagy by focally localizing and activating the ULK1 complex. The capability of NDP52 to induce mitophagy is dependent on its interaction with the FIP200/ULK1 complex, which is facilitated by TBK1. Ectopically tethering ULK1 to cargo bypasses the requirement for autophagy receptors and TBK1. Focal activation of ULK1 occurs independently of AMPK and mTOR. Our findings provide a parsimonious model of selective autophagy, which highlights the coordination of ULK1 complex localization by autophagy receptors and TBK1 as principal drivers of targeted autophagosome biogenesis."	1
"31539506"	"A Nucleolar PARtnership Expands PARP Roles in RNA Biology and the Clinical Potential of PARP Inhibitors.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Kim et al. (2019) identify small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) as activators of poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) synthesis, demonstrating that this snoRNA-PAR partnership promotes cancer cell growth independent of DNA repair pathways."	0
"32130891"	"High-Throughput Screens of PAM-Flexible Cas9 Variants for Gene Knockout and Transcriptional Modulation.A key limitation of the widely used CRISPR enzyme S. pyogenes Cas9 is the strict requirement of an NGG protospacer-adjacent motif (PAM) at the target site. This constraint can be limiting for genome editing applications that require precise Cas9 positioning. Recently, two Cas9 variants with a relaxed PAM requirement (NG) have been developed (xCas9 and Cas9-NG), but their activity has been measured at only a small number of endogenous sites. Here, we devise a high-throughput Cas9 pooled competition screen to compare the performance of Cas9 variants at thousands of genomic loci for gene knockout, transcriptional activation, and inhibition. We show that PAM flexibility comes at a substantial cost of decreased DNA targeting and cleavage. Of the PAM-flexible variants, we find that Cas9-NG outperforms xCas9 regardless of genome engineering modality or PAM. Finally, we combine xCas9 mutations with those of Cas9-NG, creating a stronger transcriptional modulator than existing PAM-flexible Cas9 variants."	0
"32726631"	"A High-Resolution Method for Quantitative Molecular Analysis of Functionally Characterized Individual Synapses.Elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying the functional diversity of synapses requires a high-resolution, sensitive, diffusion-free, quantitative localization method that allows the determination of many proteins in functionally characterized individual synapses. Array tomography permits the quantitative analysis of single synapses but has limited sensitivity, and its application to functionally characterized synapses is challenging. Here, we aim to overcome these limitations by searching the parameter space of different fixation, resin, embedding, etching, retrieval, and elution conditions. Our optimizations reveal that etching epoxy-resin-embedded ultrathin sections with Na-ethanolate and treating them with SDS dramatically increase the labeling efficiency of synaptic proteins. We also demonstrate that this method is ideal for the molecular characterization of individual synapses following paired recordings, two-photon [Ca<sup>2+</sup>] or glutamate-sensor (iGluSnFR) imaging. This method fills a missing gap in the toolbox of molecular and cellular neuroscience, helping us to reveal how molecular heterogeneity leads to diversity in function."	0
"32521260"	"Kainate Receptor Activation Shapes Short-Term Synaptic Plasticity by Controlling Receptor Lateral Mobility at Glutamatergic Synapses.Kainate receptors (KARs) mediate postsynaptic currents with a key impact on neuronal excitability. However, the molecular determinants controlling KAR postsynaptic localization and stabilization are poorly understood. Here, we exploit optogenetic and single-particle tracking approaches to study the role of KAR conformational states induced by glutamate binding on KAR lateral mobility at synapses. We report that following glutamate binding, KARs are readily and reversibly trapped at glutamatergic synapses through increased interaction with the β-catenin/N-cadherin complex. We demonstrate that such activation-dependent synaptic immobilization of KARs is crucial for the modulation of short-term plasticity of glutamatergic synapses. Thus, the present study unveils the crosstalk between conformational states and lateral mobility of KARs, a mechanism regulating glutamatergic signaling, particularly in conditions of sustained synaptic activity."	0
"32442505"	"Smc3 Deacetylation by Hos1 Facilitates Efficient Dissolution of Sister Chromatid Cohesion during Early Anaphase."	0
"30853402"	"The Cargo Receptor NDP52 Initiates Selective Autophagy by Recruiting the ULK Complex to Cytosol-Invading Bacteria.Xenophagy, a selective autophagy pathway that protects the cytosol against bacterial invasion, relies on cargo receptors that juxtapose bacteria and phagophore membranes. Whether phagophores are recruited from a constitutive pool or are generated de novo at prospective cargo remains unknown. Phagophore formation in situ would require recruitment of the upstream autophagy machinery to prospective cargo. Here, we show that, essential for anti-bacterial autophagy, the cargo receptor NDP52 forms a trimeric complex with FIP200 and SINTBAD/NAP1, which are subunits of the autophagy-initiating ULK and the TBK1 kinase complex, respectively. FIP200 and SINTBAD/NAP1 are each recruited independently to bacteria via NDP52, as revealed by selective point mutations in their respective binding sites, but only in their combined presence does xenophagy proceed. Such recruitment of the upstream autophagy machinery by NDP52 reveals how detection of cargo-associated ""eat me"" signals, induction of autophagy, and juxtaposition of cargo and phagophores are integrated in higher eukaryotes."	1
"32006463"	"Extraction of mRNA from Stalled Ribosomes by the Ski Complex.The evolutionarily conserved Ski2-Ski3-Ski8 (Ski) complex containing the 3'→5' RNA helicase Ski2 binds to 80S ribosomes near the mRNA entrance and facilitates 3'→5' exosomal degradation of mRNA during ribosome-associated mRNA surveillance pathways. Here, we assayed Ski's activity using an in vitro reconstituted translation system and report that this complex efficiently extracts mRNA from 80S ribosomes in the 3'→5' direction in a nucleotide-by-nucleotide manner. The process is ATP dependent and can occur on pre- and post-translocation ribosomal complexes. The Ski complex can engage productively with mRNA and extract it from 80S complexes containing as few as 19 (but not 13) 3'-terminal mRNA nucleotides starting from the P site. The mRNA-extracting activity of the Ski complex suggests that its role in mRNA quality control pathways is not limited to acceleration of exosomal degradation and could include clearance of stalled ribosomes from mRNA, poising mRNA for degradation and rendering stalled ribosomes recyclable by Pelota/Hbs1/ABCE1."	0
"32647006"	"A kinase cascade on the yeast lysosomal vacuole regulates its membrane dynamics: conserved kinase Env7 is phosphorylated by casein kinase Yck3.Membrane fusion/fission is a highly dynamic and conserved process that responds to intra- and extracellular signals. Whereas the molecular machineries involved in membrane fusion/fission have been dissected, regulation of membrane dynamics remains poorly understood. The lysosomal vacuole of budding yeast (<i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i>) has served as a seminal model in studies of membrane dynamics. We have previously established that yeast <i>ENV7</i> encodes an ortholog of STK16-related kinases that localizes to the vacuolar membrane and downregulates vacuolar membrane fusion. Additionally, we have previously reported that Env7 phosphorylation <i>in vivo</i> depends on <i>YCK3</i>, a gene that encodes a vacuolar membrane casein kinase I (CKI) homolog that nonredundantly functions in fusion regulation. Here, we report that Env7 physically interacts with and is directly phosphorylated by Yck3. We also establish that Env7 vacuole fusion/fission regulation and vacuolar localization are mediated through its Yck3-dependent phosphorylation. Through extensive site-directed mutagenesis, we map phosphorylation to the Env7 C terminus and confirm that Ser-331 is a primary and preferred phosphorylation site. Phospho-deficient Env7 mutants were defective in negative regulation of membrane fusion, increasing the number of prominent vacuoles, whereas a phosphomimetic substitution at Ser-331 increased the number of fragmented vacuoles. Bioinformatics approaches confirmed that Env7 Ser-331 is within a motif that is highly conserved in STK16-related kinases and that it also anchors an SXXS CKI phosphorylation motif (<sub>328</sub>SRFS<sub>331</sub>). This study represents the first report on the regulatory mechanism of an STK16-related kinase. It also points to regulation of vacuolar membrane dynamics via a novel Yck3-Env7 kinase cascade."	1
"32460017"	"Pyruvate Kinase M2 Promotes the Activation of Dendritic Cells by Enhancing IL-12p35 Expression.Dendritic cells (DCs) play a central role in both innate and adaptive immunity. Emerging evidence has demonstrated metabolic reprogramming during DC activation. However, how DC activation is linked with metabolic reprogramming remains unclear. Here we show that pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), the rate-limiting enzyme in the last step of glycolysis, is critical for LPS-induced DC activation. Upon DC activation, JNK signaling stimulated p300 association with PKM2 for the acetylation of lysine 433, a classic posttranslational modification critical for PKM2 destabilization and nuclear re-localization. Subsequently, nuclear PKM2 partnered with c-Rel to enhance Il12p35 expression, which is important for Th1 cell differentiation. Meanwhile, decreased enzymatic activity of PKM2 due to detetramerization facilitated glycolysis and fatty acid synthesis, helping DCs meet their need for biomacromolecules. Together, we provide evidence for metabolic control of DC activation and offer insights into aberrant immune responses due to dysregulated Th1 functions."	1
"32726623"	"Acetylation of UHRF1 Regulates Hemi-methylated DNA Binding and Maintenance of Genome-wide DNA Methylation.UHRF1 is a key regulator in DNA methylation maintenance. It binds histone H3K9me2/3 and hemi-methylated DNA and recruits DNMT1 to DNA replication forks during S phase. However, the regulatory mechanism of hemi-methylated DNA binding activity of UHRF1 remains unknown. In this study, we reveal that acetylation of UHRF1 is regulated by PCAF and HDAC1. We show that UHRF1 acetylation at K490 attenuates its binding affinity to hemi-methylated DNA. We analyze genome-wide DNA methylation and gene-expression patterns using stable cell lines and discover that cells where the endogenous UHRF1 is replaced with an acetyl-mimetic (UHRF1 K490Q) mutant show deficiencies in inherited DNA methylation and show different gene-expression patterns in genes related to cell survival. These results reveal that precise regulation of UHRF1 acetylation is required to maintain DNA methylation during cell division and control cell survival."	1
"32049013"	"A FLCN-TFE3 Feedback Loop Prevents Excessive Glycogenesis and Phagocyte Activation by Regulating Lysosome Activity.The tumor suppressor folliculin (FLCN) suppresses nuclear translocation of TFE3, a master transcription factor for lysosomal biogenesis, via regulation of amino-acid-sensing Rag GTPases. However, the importance of this lysosomal regulation in mammalian physiology remains unclear. Following hematopoietic-lineage-specific Flcn deletion in mice, we found expansion of vacuolated phagocytes that accumulate glycogen in their cytoplasm, phenotypes reminiscent of lysosomal storage disorder (LSD). We report that TFE3 acts in a feedback loop to transcriptionally activate FLCN expression, and FLCN loss disrupts this loop, augmenting TFE3 activity. Tfe3 deletion in Flcn knockout mice reduces the number of phagocytes and ameliorates LSD-like phenotypes. We further reveal that TFE3 stimulates glycogenesis by promoting the expression of glycogenesis genes, including Gys1 and Gyg, upon loss of Flcn. Taken together, we propose that the FLCN-TFE3 feedback loop acts as a rheostat to control lysosome activity and prevents excessive glycogenesis and LSD-like phagocyte activation."	1
"32698013"	"Genetic and Chemical Screening in Human Blood Serum Reveals Unique Antibacterial Targets and Compounds against Klebsiella pneumoniae.Antibiotics halt the growth of bacteria by targeting core, essential physiology that is required for life on standard microbiological media. Many more biochemical and virulence processes, however, are required for bacteria to cause infection in a host. Indeed, chemical inhibitors of the latter processes are overlooked using conventional antibiotic drug discovery approaches. Here, we use human blood serum as an alternative growth medium to explore new targets and compounds. High-throughput screening of genetic and chemical libraries identified compounds targeting biological activities required by Klebsiella pneumoniae to grow in serum, such as nucleobase biosynthesis and iron acquisition, and showed that serum can chemically transform compounds to reveal cryptic antibacterial activity. One of these compounds, ruthenium red, was effective in a rat bloodstream infection model. Our data demonstrate that human serum is an effective tool to find new chemical matter to address the current antibiotic resistance crisis."	0
"32579940"	"CD28 Regulates Metabolic Fitness for Long-Lived Plasma Cell Survival.Durable humoral immunity against epidemic infectious disease requires the survival of long-lived plasma cells (LLPCs). LLPC longevity is dependent on metabolic programs distinct from short-lived plasma cells (SLPCs); however, the mechanistic basis for this difference is unclear. We have previously shown that CD28, the prototypic T cell costimulatory receptor, is expressed on both LLPCs and SLPCs but is essential only for LLPC survival. Here we show that CD28 transduces pro-survival signaling specifically in LLPCs through differential SLP76 expression. CD28 signaling in LLPCs increased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass/respiration, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Unexpectedly, CD28-mediated regulation of mitochondrial respiration, NF-κB activation, and survival was ROS dependent. IRF4, a target of NF-κB, was upregulated by CD28 activation in LLPCs and decreased IRF4 levels correlated with decreased glucose uptake, mitochondrial mass, ROS, and CD28-mediated survival. Altogether, these data demonstrate that CD28 signaling induces a ROS-dependent metabolic program required for LLPC survival."	1
"32631953"	"Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome-associated mutants of the transcription factor FOXC1 abnormally regulate <i>NKX2-5</i> in model zebrafish embryos.FOXC1 is a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors, and whose function is poorly understood. A variety of <i>FOXC1</i> mutants have been identified in patients diagnosed with the autosomal dominant disease Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome, which is mainly characterized by abnormal development of the eyes, particularly those who also have accompanying congenital heart defects (CHD). However, the role of FOXC1 in CHD, and how these mutations might impact FOXC1 function, remains elusive. Our previous work provided one clue to possible function, demonstrating that zebrafish <i>foxc1a</i>, an orthologue of human <i>FOXC1</i> essential for heart development, directly regulates the expression of <i>nkx2.5</i>, encoding a transcriptional regulator of cardiac progenitor cells. Abnormal expression of <i>Nkx2-5</i> leads to CHD in mice and is also associated with CHD patients. Whether this link extends to the human system, however, requires investigation. In this study, we demonstrate that FOXC1 does regulate human <i>NKX2-5</i> expression in a dose-dependent manner via direct binding to its proximal promoter. A comparison of FOXC1 mutant function in the rat cardiac cell line H9c2 and zebrafish embryos suggested that the zebrafish embryos might serve as a more representative model system than the H9c2 cells. Finally, we noted that three of the Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome FOXC1 mutations tested increased, whereas a fourth repressed the expression of <i>NKX2-5</i> These results imply that mutant FOXC1s might play etiological roles in CHD by abnormally regulating <i>NKX2-5</i> in the patients. And zebrafish embryos can serve as a useful <i>in vivo</i> platform for rapidly evaluating disease-causing roles of mutated genes."	1
"32407673"	"Using Chemical Epigenetics to Target Cancer.Transcription is epigenetically regulated by the orchestrated function of chromatin-binding proteins that tightly control the expression of master transcription factors, effectors, and supportive housekeeping genes required for establishing and propagating the normal and malignant cell state. Rapid advances in chemical biology and functional genomics have facilitated exploration of targeting epigenetic proteins, yielding effective strategies to target transcription while reducing toxicities to untransformed cells. Here, we review recent developments in conventional active site and allosteric inhibitors, peptidomimetics, and novel proteolysis-targeted chimera (PROTAC) technology that have deepened our understanding of transcriptional processes and led to promising preclinical compounds for therapeutic translation, particularly in cancer."	0
"32846118"	"Antagonistic Interaction between Auxin and SA Signaling Pathways Regulates Bacterial Infection through Lateral Root in Arabidopsis.Pathogen entry into host tissues is a critical and first step in infections. In plants, the lateral roots (LRs) are a potential entry and colonization site for pathogens. Here, using a GFP-labeled pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato strain DC3000 (Pto DC3000), we observe that virulent Pto DC3000 invades plants through emerged LRs in Arabidopsis. Pto DC3000 strongly induced LR formation, a process that was dependent on the AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR7 (ARF7)/ARF19-LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES-DOMAIN (LBD) regulatory module. We show that salicylic acid (SA) represses LR formation, and several mutants defective in SA signaling are also involved in Pto DC3000-induced LR development. Significantly, ARF7, a well-documented positive regulator of LR development, directly represses the transcription of PR1 and PR2 to promote LR development. This study indicates that ARF7-mediated auxin signaling antagonizes with SA signaling to control bacterial infection through the regulation of LR development."	1
"32726635"	"Bab2 Functions as an Ecdysone-Responsive Transcriptional Repressor during Drosophila Development.Drosophila development is governed by distinct ecdysone steroid pulses that initiate spatially and temporally defined gene expression programs. The translation of these signals into tissue-specific responses is crucial for metamorphosis, but the mechanisms that confer specificity to systemic ecdysone pulses are far from understood. Here, we identify Bric-à-brac 2 (Bab2) as an ecdysone-responsive transcriptional repressor that controls temporal gene expression during larval to pupal transition. Bab2 is necessary to terminate Salivary gland secretion (Sgs) gene expression, while premature Bab2 expression blocks Sgs genes and causes precocious salivary gland histolysis. The timely expression of bab2 is controlled by the ecdysone-responsive transcription factor Broad, and manipulation of EcR/USP/Broad signaling induces inappropriate Bab2 expression and termination of Sgs gene expression. Bab2 directly binds to Sgs loci in vitro and represses all Sgs genes in vivo. Our work characterizes Bab2 as a temporal regulator of somatic gene expression in response to systemic ecdysone signaling."	1
"32719006"	"Structural and functional studies of <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> legumain beta reveal isoform specific mechanisms of activation and substrate recognition.The vacuolar cysteine protease legumain plays important functions in seed maturation and plant programmed cell death. Because of their dual protease and ligase activity, plant legumains have become of particular biotechnological interest, <i>e.g.</i> for the synthesis of cyclic peptides for drug design or for protein engineering. However, the molecular mechanisms behind their dual protease and ligase activities are still poorly understood, limiting their applications. Here, we present the crystal structure of <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> legumain isoform β (AtLEGβ) in its zymogen state. Combining structural and biochemical experiments, we show for the first time that plant legumains encode distinct, isoform-specific activation mechanisms. Whereas the autocatalytic activation of isoform γ (AtLEGγ) is controlled by the latency-conferring dimer state, the activation of the monomeric AtLEGβ is concentration independent. Additionally, in AtLEGβ the plant-characteristic two-chain intermediate state is stabilized by hydrophobic rather than ionic interactions, as in AtLEGγ, resulting in significantly different pH stability profiles. The crystal structure of AtLEGβ revealed unrestricted nonprime substrate binding pockets, consistent with the broad substrate specificity, as determined by degradomic assays. Further to its protease activity, we show that AtLEGβ exhibits a true peptide ligase activity. Whereas cleavage-dependent transpeptidase activity has been reported for other plant legumains, AtLEGβ is the first example of a plant legumain capable of linking free termini. The discovery of these isoform-specific differences will allow us to identify and rationally design efficient ligases with application in biotechnology and drug development."	0
"31302001"	"SENP1-Sirt3 Signaling Controls Mitochondrial Protein Acetylation and Metabolism.Sirt3, as a major mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-dependent deacetylase, is required for mitochondrial metabolic adaption to various stresses. However, how to regulate Sirt3 activity responding to metabolic stress remains largely unknown. Here, we report Sirt3 as a SUMOylated protein in mitochondria. SUMOylation suppresses Sirt3 catalytic activity. SUMOylation-deficient Sirt3 shows elevated deacetylation on mitochondrial proteins and increased fatty acid oxidation. During fasting, SUMO-specific protease SENP1 is accumulated in mitochondria and quickly de-SUMOylates and activates Sirt3. SENP1 deficiency results in hyper-SUMOylation of Sirt3 and hyper-acetylation of mitochondrial proteins, which reduces mitochondrial metabolic adaption responding to fasting. Furthermore, we find that fasting induces SENP1 translocation into mitochondria to activate Sirt3. The studies on mice show that Sirt3 SUMOylation mutation reduces fat mass and antagonizes high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity via increasing oxidative phosphorylation and energy expenditure. Our results reveal that SENP1-Sirt3 signaling modulates Sirt3 activation and mitochondrial metabolism during metabolic stress."	0
"32783946"	"Phosphoproteomic Analysis across the Yeast Life Cycle Reveals Control of Fatty Acyl Chain Length by Phosphorylation of the Fatty Acid Synthase Complex.The ability to remodel lipid metabolism under changing conditions is pivotal for cellular functionality and homeostasis. Here, we characterize the regulatory landscape of phosphorylation-based signaling events across the life cycle of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and determine its impact on the regulation of lipid metabolism. Our data show that 50 lipid metabolic proteins are differentially phosphorylated as cells transit between different physiological states. To identify functional phosphosites, we devised a strategy where multiple phosphosites are simultaneously mutated into phosphomimetic or phosphodeficient alleles and mutants are phenotyped by in-depth lipidomics flux analysis. This uncovers functional phosphosites in the phosphatidate cytidylyltransferase Cds1, the phosphatidylserine synthase Cho1, and Fas2, the α-subunit of the fatty acid synthase (FAS) complex. Furthermore, we show that the fatty acyl chain length produced by FAS is governed by phosphorylation. Overall, our work demonstrates a vital role for phosphoregulation of lipid metabolism and provides a resource to investigate its molecular underpinnings."	0
"32636302"	"The molecular basis for immune dysregulation by the hyperactivated E62K mutant of the GTPase RAC2.The RAS-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 2 (RAC2) is a member of the RHO subclass of RAS superfamily GTPases required for proper immune function. An activating mutation in a key switch II region of RAC2 (RAC2<sup>E62K</sup>) involved in recognizing modulatory factors and effectors has been identified in patients with common variable immune deficiency. To better understand how the mutation dysregulates RAC2 function, we evaluated the structure and stability, guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) and GTPase-activating protein (GAP) activity, and effector binding of RAC2<sup>E62K</sup> Our findings indicate the E62K mutation does not alter RAC2 structure or stability. However, it does alter GEF specificity, as RAC2<sup>E62K</sup> is activated by the DOCK GEF, DOCK2, but not by the Dbl homology GEF, TIAM1, both of which activate the parent protein. Our previous data further showed that the E62K mutation impairs GAP activity for RAC2<sup>E62K</sup> As this disease mutation is also found in RAS GTPases, we assessed GAP-stimulated GTP hydrolysis for KRAS and observed a similar impairment, suggesting that the mutation plays a conserved role in GAP activation. We also investigated whether the E62K mutation alters effector binding, as activated RAC2 binds effectors to transmit signaling through effector pathways. We find that RAC2<sup>E62K</sup> retains binding to an NADPH oxidase (NOX2) subunit, p67<sup>phox</sup>, and to the RAC-binding domain of p21-activated kinase, consistent with our earlier findings. Taken together, our findings indicate that the RAC2<sup>E62K</sup> mutation promotes immune dysfunction by promoting RAC2 hyperactivation, altering GEF specificity, and impairing GAP function yet retaining key effector interactions."	0
"32807903"	"Decapping enzyme 1A breaks X-chromosome symmetry by controlling Tsix elongation and RNA turnover.How allelic asymmetry is generated remains a major unsolved problem in epigenetics. Here we model the problem using X-chromosome inactivation by developing ""BioRBP"", an enzymatic RNA-proteomic method that enables probing of low-abundance interactions and an allelic RNA-depletion and -tagging system. We identify messenger RNA-decapping enzyme 1A (DCP1A) as a key regulator of Tsix, a noncoding RNA implicated in allelic choice through X-chromosome pairing. DCP1A controls Tsix half-life and transcription elongation. Depleting DCP1A causes accumulation of X-X pairs and perturbs the transition to monoallelic Tsix expression required for Xist upregulation. While ablating DCP1A causes hyperpairing, forcing Tsix degradation resolves pairing and enables Xist upregulation. We link pairing to allelic partitioning of CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) and show that tethering DCP1A to one Tsix allele is sufficient to drive monoallelic Xist expression. Thus, DCP1A flips a bistable switch for the mutually exclusive determination of active and inactive Xs."	1
"32763910"	"miR760 regulates ATXN1 levels via interaction with its 5' untranslated region.Identifying modifiers of dosage-sensitive genes involved in neurodegenerative disorders is imperative to discover novel genetic risk factors and potential therapeutic entry points. In this study, we focus on Ataxin-1 (<i>ATXN1</i>), a dosage-sensitive gene involved in the neurodegenerative disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). While the precise maintenance of ATXN1 levels is essential to prevent disease, the mechanisms that regulate <i>ATXN1</i> expression remain largely unknown. We demonstrate that <i>ATXN1</i>'s unusually long 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) negatively regulates its expression via posttranscriptional mechanisms. Based on recent reports that microRNAs (miRNAs) can interact with both 3' and 5' UTRs to regulate their target genes, we identify miR760 as a negative regulator that binds to a conserved site in <i>ATXN1</i>'s 5' UTR to induce RNA degradation and translational inhibition. We found that delivery of Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-expressing miR760 in the cerebellum reduces ATXN1 levels in vivo and mitigates motor coordination deficits in a mouse model of SCA1. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of ATXN1 levels, present additional evidence for miRNA-mediated gene regulation via 5' UTR binding, and raise the possibility that noncoding mutations in the <i>ATXN1</i> locus may act as risk factors for yet to be discovered progressive ataxias."	1
"32101745"	"Dense Transposon Integration Reveals Essential Cleavage and Polyadenylation Factors Promote Heterochromatin Formation.Heterochromatin functions as a scaffold for factors responsible for gene silencing and chromosome segregation. Heterochromatin can be assembled by multiple pathways, including RNAi and RNA surveillance. We identified factors that form heterochromatin using dense profiles of transposable element integration in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The candidates include a large number of essential proteins such as four canonical mRNA cleavage and polyadenylation factors. We find that Iss1, a subunit of the poly(A) polymerase module, plays a role in forming heterochromatin in centromere repeats that is independent of RNAi. Genome-wide maps reveal that Iss1 accumulates at genes regulated by RNA surveillance. Iss1 interacts with RNA surveillance factors Mmi1 and Rrp6, and importantly, Iss1 contributes to RNA elimination that forms heterochromatin at meiosis genes. Our profile of transposable element integration supports the model that a network of mRNA cleavage and polyadenylation factors coordinates RNA surveillance, including the mechanism that forms heterochromatin at meiotic genes."	0
"32544389"	"RNA Pol II Length and Disorder Enable Cooperative Scaling of Transcriptional Bursting.RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) contains a disordered C-terminal domain (CTD) whose length enigmatically correlates with genome size. The CTD is crucial to eukaryotic transcription, yet the functional and evolutionary relevance of this variation remains unclear. Here, we investigate how CTD length and disorder influence transcription. We find that length modulates the size and frequency of transcriptional bursting. Disorder is highly conserved and facilitates CTD-CTD interactions, an ability we show is separable from protein sequence and necessary for efficient transcription. We build a data-driven quantitative model, simulations of which recapitulate experiments and support that CTD length promotes initial polymerase recruitment to the promoter and slows down its release from it and that CTD-CTD interactions enable recruitment of multiple polymerases. Our results reveal how these parameters provide access to a range of transcriptional activity, offering a new perspective for the mechanistic significance of CTD length and disorder in transcription across eukaryotes."	0
"32160551"	"NRBP1-Containing CRL2/CRL4A Regulates Amyloid β Production by Targeting BRI2 and BRI3 for Degradation.Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by accumulations of Aβ peptides. Production and fibrillation of Aβ are downregulated by BRI2 and BRI3, which are physiological inhibitors of amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and Aβ oligomerization. Here, we identify nuclear receptor binding protein 1 (NRBP1) as a substrate receptor of a Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL) that targets BRI2 and BRI3 for degradation. Moreover, we demonstrate that (1) dimerized NRBP1 assembles into a functional Cul2- and Cul4A-containing heterodimeric CRL through its BC-box and an overlapping cryptic H-box, (2) both Cul2 and Cul4A contribute to NRBP1 CRL function, and (3) formation of the NRBP1 heterodimeric CRL is strongly enhanced by chaperone-like function of TSC22D3 and TSC22D4. NRBP1 knockdown in neuronal cells results in an increase in the abundance of BRI2 and BRI3 and significantly reduces Aβ production. Thus, disrupting interactions between NRBP1 and its substrates BRI2 and BRI3 may provide a useful therapeutic strategy for AD."	1
"32386539"	"Life in the (Pluripotent) Fast Lane: Cdk1 Preserves the Epigenome to Maintain Pluripotency.Michowski and colleagues (2020) engineered analog-sensitive Cdk1 knockin mice to identify Cdk1 targets in embryonic stem cells, which led them to discover a novel function for Cdk1 in shaping the epigenetic landscape by direct regulation of epigenetic modulators."	0
"30876804"	"Chaperone Function of Hgh1 in the Biogenesis of Eukaryotic Elongation Factor 2.Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2) is an abundant and essential component of the translation machinery. The biogenesis of this 93 kDa multi-domain protein is assisted by the chaperonin TRiC/CCT. Here, we show in yeast cells that the highly conserved protein Hgh1 (FAM203 in humans) is a chaperone that cooperates with TRiC in eEF2 folding. In the absence of Hgh1, a substantial fraction of newly synthesized eEF2 is degraded or aggregates. We solved the crystal structure of Hgh1 and analyzed the interaction of wild-type and mutant Hgh1 with eEF2. These experiments revealed that Hgh1 is an armadillo repeat protein that binds to the dynamic central domain III of eEF2 via a bipartite interface. Hgh1 binding recruits TRiC to the C-terminal eEF2 module and prevents unproductive interactions of domain III, allowing efficient folding of the N-terminal GTPase module. eEF2 folding is completed upon dissociation of TRiC and Hgh1."	0
"31023583"	"ER and Nutrient Stress Promote Assembly of Respiratory Chain Supercomplexes through the PERK-eIF2α Axis.Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response are energetically challenging under nutrient stress conditions. However, the regulatory mechanisms that control the energetic demand under nutrient and ER stress are largely unknown. Here we show that ER stress and glucose deprivation stimulate mitochondrial bioenergetics and formation of respiratory supercomplexes (SCs) through protein kinase R-like ER kinase (PERK). Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of PERK suppresses nutrient and ER stress-mediated increases in SC levels and reduces oxidative phosphorylation-dependent ATP production. Conversely, PERK activation augments respiratory SCs. The PERK-eIF2α-ATF4 axis increases supercomplex assembly factor 1 (SCAF1 or COX7A2L), promoting SCs and enhanced mitochondrial respiration. PERK activation is sufficient to rescue bioenergetic defects caused by complex I missense mutations derived from mitochondrial disease patients. These studies have identified an energetic communication between ER and mitochondria, with implications in cell survival and diseases associated with mitochondrial failures."	1
"32540969"	"Effects of intron conversion in the human <i>CYP11B2</i> gene on its transcription and blood pressure regulation in transgenic mice.The human cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily B member 2 (<i>hCYP11B2</i>) gene encodes aldosterone synthase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of aldosterone. In some humans, <i>hCYP11B2</i> undergoes a unique intron conversion whose function is largely unclear. The intron conversion is formed by a replacement of the segment of DNA within intron 2 of <i>hCYP11B2</i> with the corresponding region of the <i>hCYP11B1</i> gene. We show here that the intron conversion is located in an open chromatin form and binds more strongly to the transcriptional regulators histone acetyltransferase P300 (p300), NFκB, and CCAAT enhancer-binding protein α (CEBPα). Reporter constructs containing the intron conversion had increased promoter activity on transient transfection in H295R cells compared with WT intron 2. We generated humanized transgenic (TG) mice containing all the introns, exons, and 5'- and 3'-flanking regions of the <i>hCYP11B2</i> gene containing either the intron conversion or WT intron 2. We found that TG mice containing the intron conversion have (<i>a</i>) increased plasma aldosterone levels, (<i>b</i>) increased <i>hCYP11B2</i> mRNA and protein levels, and (<i>c</i>) increased blood pressure compared with TG mice containing WT intron 2. Results of a ChIP assay showed that chromatin obtained from the adrenals of TG mice containing the intron conversion binds more strongly to p300, NFκB, and CEBPα than to WT intron 2. These results uncover a functional role of intron conversion in <i>hCYP11B2</i> and suggest a new paradigm in blood pressure regulation."	0
"32668240"	"Systematic Characterization of Recurrent Genomic Alterations in Cyclin-Dependent Kinases Reveals Potential Therapeutic Strategies for Cancer Treatment.Recurrent copy-number alterations, mutations, and transcript fusions of the genes encoding CDKs/cyclins are characterized in >10,000 tumors. Genomic alterations of CDKs/cyclins are dominantly driven by copy number aberrations. In contrast to cell-cycle-related CDKs/cyclins, which are globally amplified, transcriptional CDKs/cyclins recurrently lose copy numbers across cancers. Although mutations and transcript fusions are relatively rare events, CDK12 exhibits recurrent mutations in multiple cancers. Among the transcriptional CDKs, CDK7 and CDK12 show the most significant copy number loss and mutation, respectively. Their genomic alterations are correlated with increased sensitivities to DNA-damaging drugs. Inhibition of CDK7 preferentially represses the expression of genes in the DNA-damage-repair pathways and impairs the activity of homologous recombination. Low-dose CDK7 inhibitor treatment sensitizes cancer cells to PARP inhibitor-induced DNA damage and cell death. Our analysis provides genomic information for identification and prioritization of drug targets for CDKs and reveals rationales for treatment strategies."	0
"31809742"	"Watch Out for Those Terrible Twos! Dinucleotide Accumulation Dysregulates Mitochondrial Transcription.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Nicholls et al. (2019) show that the oligoribonuclease REXO2 degrades mitochondrial RNA dinucleotides to prevent RNA-primed transcription at non-canonical sites in the mitochondrial genome, shedding new light on the importance of complete RNA degradation for transcriptional integrity."	0
"32499401"	"Competition between maturation and degradation drives human snRNA 3' end quality control.Polymerases and exonucleases act on 3' ends of nascent RNAs to promote their maturation or degradation but how the balance between these activities is controlled to dictate the fates of cellular RNAs remains poorly understood. Here, we identify a central role for the human DEDD deadenylase TOE1 in distinguishing the fates of small nuclear (sn)RNAs of the spliceosome from unstable genome-encoded snRNA variants. We found that TOE1 promotes maturation of all regular RNA polymerase II transcribed snRNAs of the major and minor spliceosomes by removing posttranscriptional oligo(A) tails, trimming 3' ends, and preventing nuclear exosome targeting. In contrast, TOE1 promotes little to no maturation of tested U1 variant snRNAs, which are instead targeted by the nuclear exosome. These observations suggest that TOE1 is positioned at the center of a 3' end quality control pathway that selectively promotes maturation and stability of regular snRNAs while leaving snRNA variants unprocessed and exposed to degradation in what could be a widespread mechanism of RNA quality control given the large number of noncoding RNAs processed by DEDD deadenylases."	0
"32209472"	"Lymph Node Stromal Cells Generate Antigen-Specific Regulatory T Cells and Control Autoreactive T and B Cell Responses.Within lymph nodes (LNs), T follicular helper (T<sub>FH</sub>) cells help B cells to produce antibodies, which can either be protective or autoreactive. Here, we demonstrate that murine LN stromal cells (LNSCs) suppress the formation of autoreactive T<sub>FH</sub> cells in an antigen-specific manner, thereby significantly reducing germinal center B cell responses directed against the same self-antigen. Mechanistically, LNSCs express and present self-antigens in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II, leading to the conversion of naive CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells into T regulatory (T<sub>REG</sub>) cells in an interleukin-2 (IL-2)-dependent manner. Upon blockade of T<sub>REG</sub> cells, using neutralizing IL-2 antibodies, autoreactive T<sub>FH</sub> cells are allowed to develop. We conclude that the continuous presentation of self-antigens by LNSCs is critical to generate antigen-specific T<sub>REG</sub> cells, thereby repressing the formation of T<sub>FH</sub> cells and germinal center B cell responses. Our findings uncover the ability of LNSCs to suppress the early activation of autoreactive immune cells and maintain peripheral tolerance."	0
"32846133"	"Local Translation in Perisynaptic Astrocytic Processes Is Specific and Changes after Fear Conditioning.Local translation is a conserved mechanism conferring cells the ability to quickly respond to local stimuli. In the brain, it has been recently reported in astrocytes, whose fine processes contact blood vessels and synapses. Yet the specificity and regulation of astrocyte local translation remain unknown. We study hippocampal perisynaptic astrocytic processes (PAPs) and show that they contain the machinery for translation. Using a refined immunoprecipitation technique, we characterize the entire pool of ribosome-bound mRNAs in PAPs and compare it with the one expressed in the whole astrocyte. We find that a specific pool of mRNAs is highly polarized at the synaptic interface. These transcripts encode an unexpected molecular repertoire, composed of proteins involved in iron homeostasis, translation, cell cycle, and cytoskeleton. Remarkably, we observe alterations in global RNA distribution and ribosome-bound status of some PAP-enriched transcripts after fear conditioning, indicating the role of astrocytic local translation in memory and learning."	0
"32294430"	"Cdk4 and Cdk6 Couple the Cell-Cycle Machinery to Cell Growth via mTORC1.Cell growth is coupled to cell-cycle progression in mitotically proliferating mammalian cells, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. CyclinD-Cdk4/6 is known to phosphorylate RB to promote S-phase entry, but recent work suggests they have additional functions. We show here that CyclinD-Cdk4/6 activates mTORC1 by binding and phosphorylating TSC2 on Ser1217 and Ser1452. Pharmacological inhibition of Cdk4/6 leads to a rapid, TSC2-dependent reduction of mTORC1 activity in multiple human and mouse cell lines, including breast cancer cells. By simultaneously driving mTORC1 and E2F, CyclinD-Cdk4/6 couples cell growth to cell-cycle progression. Consistent with this, we see that mTORC1 activity is cell cycle dependent in proliferating neural stem cells of the adult rodent brain. We find that Cdk4/6 inhibition reduces cell proliferation partly via TSC2 and mTORC1. This is of clinical relevance, because Cdk4/6 inhibitors are used for breast cancer therapy."	1
"32905768"	"The Negative Cross-Talk between SAG/RBX2/ROC2 and APC/C E3 Ligases in Regulation of Cell Cycle Progression and Drug Resistance.Anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is a well-characterized E3 ligase that couples with UBE2C and UBE2S E2s for substrate ubiquitylation by the K11 linkage. Our recent data show that SAG/RBX2/ROC2, a RING component of Cullin-RING E3 ligase, also complexes with these E2s for K11-linked substrate polyubiquitylation. Whether these two E3s cross-talk with each other was previously unknown. Here, we report that SAG competes with APC2 for UBE2C/UBE2S binding to act as a potential endogenous inhibitor of APC/C, thereby regulating the G2-to-M progression. As such, SAG knockdown triggers premature activation of APC/C, leading to mitotic slippage and resistance to anti-microtubule drugs. On the other hand, SAG itself is a substrate of APC/C<sup>CDH1</sup> for targeted degradation at the G1 phase. The degradation-resistant mutant of SAG-R98A/L101A accelerates the G1-to-S progression. Our study reveals that the negative cross-talk between SAG and APC/C is likely a mechanism to ensure the fidelity of cell cycle progression."	1
"32690610"	"Highly conserved extracellular residues mediate interactions between pore-forming and regulatory subunits of the yeast Ca<sup>2+</sup> channel related to the animal VGCC/NALCN family.Yeasts and fungi generate Ca<sup>2+</sup> signals in response to environmental stresses through Ca<sup>2+</sup> channels essentially composed of Cch1 and Mid1. Cch1 is homologous to the pore-forming α<sub>1</sub> subunit of animal voltage-gated Ca<sup>2+</sup> channels (VGCCs) and sodium leak channels nonselective (NALCNs), whereas Mid1 is a membrane-associated protein similar to the regulatory α<sub>2</sub>/δ subunit of VGCCs and the regulatory subunit of NALCNs. Although the physiological roles of Cch1/Mid1 channels are known, their molecular regulation remains elusive, including subunit interactions regulating channel functionality. Herein, we identify amino acid residues involved in interactions between the pore-forming Cch1 subunit and the essential regulatory Mid1 subunit of <i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i><i>In vitro</i> mutagenesis followed by functional assays and co-immunoprecipitation experiments reveal that three residues present in a specific extracellular loop in the repeat III region of Cch1 are required for interaction with Mid1, and that one essential Mid1 residue is required for interaction with Cch1. Importantly, these residues are necessary for Ca<sup>2+</sup> channel activity and are highly conserved in fungal and animal counterparts. We discuss that this unique subunit interaction-based regulatory mechanism for Cch1 differs from that of VGCCs/NALCNs."	0
"31759822"	"TFIIIC Binding to Alu Elements Controls Gene Expression via Chromatin Looping and Histone Acetylation.How repetitive elements, epigenetic modifications, and architectural proteins interact ensuring proper genome expression remains poorly understood. Here, we report regulatory mechanisms unveiling a central role of Alu elements (AEs) and RNA polymerase III transcription factor C (TFIIIC) in structurally and functionally modulating the genome via chromatin looping and histone acetylation. Upon serum deprivation, a subset of AEs pre-marked by the activity-dependent neuroprotector homeobox Protein (ADNP) and located near cell-cycle genes recruits TFIIIC, which alters their chromatin accessibility by direct acetylation of histone H3 lysine-18 (H3K18). This facilitates the contacts of AEs with distant CTCF sites near promoter of other cell-cycle genes, which also become hyperacetylated at H3K18. These changes ensure basal transcription of cell-cycle genes and are critical for their re-activation upon serum re-exposure. Our study reveals how direct manipulation of the epigenetic state of AEs by a general transcription factor regulates 3D genome folding and expression."	0
"32641492"	"Hepatitis C virus NS3-4A protease regulates the lipid environment for RNA replication by cleaving host enzyme 24-dehydrocholesterol reductase.Many RNA viruses create specialized membranes for genome replication by manipulating host lipid metabolism and trafficking, but in most cases, we do not know the molecular mechanisms responsible or how specific lipids may impact the associated membrane and viral process. For example, hepatitis C virus (HCV) causes a specific, large-fold increase in the steady-state abundance of intracellular desmosterol, an immediate precursor of cholesterol, resulting in increased fluidity of the membrane where HCV RNA replication occurs. Here, we establish the mechanism responsible for HCV's effect on intracellular desmosterol, whereby the HCV NS3-4A protease controls activity of 24-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR24), the enzyme that catalyzes conversion of desmosterol to cholesterol. Our cumulative evidence for the proposed mechanism includes immunofluorescence microscopy experiments showing co-occurrence of DHCR24 and HCV NS3-4A protease; formation of an additional, faster-migrating DHCR24 species (DHCR24*) in cells harboring a HCV subgenomic replicon RNA or ectopically expressing NS3-4A; and biochemical evidence that NS3-4A cleaves DHCR24 to produce DHCR24* <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i> We further demonstrate that NS3-4A cleaves DHCR24 between residues Cys<sup>91</sup> and Thr<sup>92</sup> and show that this reduces the intracellular conversion of desmosterol to cholesterol. Together, these studies demonstrate that NS3-4A directly cleaves DHCR24 and that this results in the enrichment of desmosterol in the membranes where NS3-4A and DHCR24 co-occur. Overall, this suggests a model in which HCV directly regulates the lipid environment for RNA replication through direct effects on the host lipid metabolism."	0
"32697996"	"The lncRNA Growth Arrest Specific 5 Regulates Cell Survival via Distinct Structural Modules with Independent Functions.There is increasing evidence that the architecture of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs)-just like that of proteins-is hierarchically organized into independently folding sub-modules with distinct functions. Studies characterizing the cellular activities of such modules, however, are rare. The lncRNA growth arrest specific 5 (GAS5) is a key regulator of cell survival in response to stress and nutrient availability. We use SHAPE-MaP to probe the structure of GAS5 and identify three separate structural modules that act independently in leukemic T cells. The 5' terminal module with low secondary structure content affects basal survival and slows the cell cycle, whereas the highly structured core module mediates the effects of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibition on cell growth. These results highlight the central role of GAS5 in regulating cell survival and reveal how a single lncRNA transcript utilizes a modular structure-function relationship to respond to a variety of cellular stresses under various cellular conditions."	0
"32937124"	"The Natural Compound Notopterol Binds and Targets JAK2/3 to Ameliorate Inflammation and Arthritis.The traditional Chinese medicinal herb Notopterygium incisum Ting ex H.T. Chang has anti-rheumatism activity, and a mass spectrometry assay of patients' serum after administration of the herb revealed that notopterol is the most abundant component enriched. However, the functions of notopterol and its molecular target in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment remain unknown. Here, we show in different RA mouse strains that both oral and intraperitoneal administration of notopterol result in significant therapeutic effects. Mechanistically, notopterol directly binds Janus kinase (JAK)2 and JAK3 kinase domains to inhibit JAK/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) activation, leading to reduced production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Critically, combination therapy using both notopterol and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker results in enhanced therapeutic effects compared to using TNF blocker alone. We demonstrate that notopterol ameliorates RA pathology by targeting JAK-STAT signaling, raising the possibility that notopterol could be effective in treating other diseases characterized by aberrant JAK-STAT signaling pathway."	1
"32139423"	"The adrenergic-induced ERK3 pathway drives lipolysis and suppresses energy dissipation.Obesity-induced diabetes affects >400 million people worldwide. Uncontrolled lipolysis (free fatty acid release from adipocytes) can contribute to diabetes and obesity. To identify future therapeutic avenues targeting this pathway, we performed a high-throughput screen and identified the extracellular-regulated kinase 3 (ERK3) as a hit. We demonstrated that β-adrenergic stimulation stabilizes ERK3, leading to the formation of a complex with the cofactor MAP kinase-activated protein kinase 5 (MK5), thereby driving lipolysis. Mechanistically, we identified a downstream target of the ERK3/MK5 pathway, the transcription factor FOXO1, which promotes the expression of the major lipolytic enzyme ATGL. Finally, we provide evidence that targeted deletion of ERK3 in mouse adipocytes inhibits lipolysis, but elevates energy dissipation, promoting lean phenotype and ameliorating diabetes. Thus, ERK3/MK5 represents a previously unrecognized signaling axis in adipose tissue and an attractive target for future therapies aiming to combat obesity-induced diabetes."	1
"32592682"	"An Insulin-Sensitive Circular RNA that Regulates Lifespan in Drosophila.Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are abundant and accumulate with age in neurons of diverse species. However, only few circRNAs have been functionally characterized, and their role during aging has not been addressed. Here, we use transcriptome profiling during aging and find that accumulation of circRNAs is slowed down in long-lived insulin mutant flies. Next, we characterize the in vivo function of a circRNA generated by the sulfateless gene (circSfl), which is consistently upregulated, particularly in the brain and muscle, of diverse long-lived insulin mutants. Strikingly, lifespan extension of insulin mutants is dependent on circSfl, and overexpression of circSfl alone is sufficient to extend the lifespan. Moreover, circSfl is translated into a protein that shares the N terminus and potentially some functions with the full-length Sfl protein encoded by the host gene. Our study demonstrates that insulin signaling affects global circRNA accumulation and reveals an important role of circSfl during aging in vivo."	0
"31585693"	"A Diversity of Selective Autophagy Receptors Determines the Specificity of the Autophagy Pathway.The clearance of surplus, broken, or dangerous components is key for maintaining cellular homeostasis. The failure to remove protein aggregates, damaged organelles, or intracellular pathogens leads to diseases, including neurodegeneration, cancer, and infectious diseases. Autophagy is the evolutionarily conserved pathway that sequesters cytoplasmic components in specialized vesicles, autophagosomes, which transport the cargo to the degradative compartments (vacuoles or lysosomes). Research during the past few decades has elucidated how autophagosomes engulf their substrates selectively. This type of autophagy involves a growing number of selective autophagy receptors (SARs) (e.g., Atg19 in yeasts, p62/SQSTM1 in mammals), which bind to the cargo and simultaneously engage components of the core autophagic machinery via direct interaction with the ubiquitin-like proteins (UBLs) of the Atg8/LC3/GABARAP family and adaptors, Atg11 (in yeasts) or FIP200 (in mammals). In this Review, we critically discuss the biology of the SARs with special emphasis on their interactions with UBLs."	0
"32209477"	"Shifts in Ribosome Engagement Impact Key Gene Sets in Neurodevelopment and Ubiquitination in Rett Syndrome.Regulation of translation during human development is poorly understood, and its dysregulation is associated with Rett syndrome (RTT). To discover shifts in mRNA ribosomal engagement (RE) during human neurodevelopment, we use parallel translating ribosome affinity purification sequencing (TRAP-seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on control and RTT human induced pluripotent stem cells, neural progenitor cells, and cortical neurons. We find that 30% of transcribed genes are translationally regulated, including key gene sets (neurodevelopment, transcription and translation factors, and glycolysis). Approximately 35% of abundant intergenic long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are ribosome engaged. Neurons translate mRNAs more efficiently and have longer 3' UTRs, and RE correlates with elements for RNA-binding proteins. RTT neurons have reduced global translation and compromised mTOR signaling, and >2,100 genes are translationally dysregulated. NEDD4L E3-ubiquitin ligase is translationally impaired, ubiquitinated protein levels are reduced, and protein targets accumulate in RTT neurons. Overall, the dynamic translatome in neurodevelopment is disturbed in RTT and provides insight into altered ubiquitination that may have therapeutic implications."	0
"32521264"	"PRMT1-p53 Pathway Controls Epicardial EMT and Invasion.Epicardial cells are cardiac progenitors that give rise to the majority of cardiac fibroblasts, coronary smooth muscle cells, and pericytes during development. An integral phase of epicardial fate transition is epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) that confers motility. We uncover an essential role for the protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) in epicardial invasion and differentiation. Using scRNA-seq, we show that epicardial-specific deletion of Prmt1 reduced matrix and ribosomal gene expression in epicardial-derived cell lineages. PRMT1 regulates splicing of Mdm4, which is a key controller of p53 stability. Loss of PRMT1 leads to accumulation of p53 that enhances Slug degradation and blocks EMT. During heart development, the PRMT1-p53 pathway is required for epicardial invasion and formation of epicardial-derived lineages: cardiac fibroblasts, coronary smooth muscle cells, and pericytes. Consequently, this pathway modulates ventricular morphogenesis and coronary vessel formation. Altogether, our study reveals molecular mechanisms involving the PRMT1-p53 pathway and establish its roles in heart development."	1
"30581142"	"Drp1-Zip1 Interaction Regulates Mitochondrial Quality Surveillance System.Mitophagy, a mitochondrial quality control process for eliminating dysfunctional mitochondria, can be induced by a response of dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) to a reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and mitochondrial division. However, the coordination between MMP and mitochondrial division for selecting the damaged portion of the mitochondrial network is less understood. Here, we found that MMP is reduced focally at a fission site by the Drp1 recruitment, which is initiated by the interaction of Drp1 with mitochondrial zinc transporter Zip1 and Zn<sup>2+</sup> entry through the Zip1-MCU complex. After division, healthy mitochondria restore MMP levels and participate in the fusion-fission cycle again, but mitochondria that fail to restore MMP undergo mitophagy. Thus, interfering with the interaction between Drp1 and Zip1 blocks the reduction of MMP and the subsequent mitophagic selection of damaged mitochondria. These results suggest that Drp1-dependent fission provides selective pressure for eliminating ""bad sectors"" in the mitochondrial network, serving as a mitochondrial quality surveillance system."	1
"32367047"	"Myeloid PTEN promotes chemotherapy-induced NLRP3-inflammasome activation and antitumour immunity.PTEN is a dual-specificity phosphatase that is frequently mutated in human cancer, and its deficiency in cancer has been associated with therapy resistance and poor survival. Although the intrinsic tumour-suppressor function of PTEN has been well established, evidence of its role in the tumour immune microenvironment is lacking. Here, we show that chemotherapy-induced antitumour immune responses and tumour suppression rely on myeloid-cell PTEN, which is essential for chemotherapy-induced activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and antitumour immunity. PTEN directly interacts with and dephosphorylates NLRP3 to enable NLRP3-ASC interaction, inflammasome assembly and activation. Importantly, supplementation of IL-1β restores chemotherapy sensitivity in mouse myeloid cells with a PTEN deficiency. Clinically, chemotherapy-induced IL-1β production and antitumour immunity in patients with cancer is correlated with PTEN expression in myeloid cells, but not tumour cells. Our results demonstrate that myeloid PTEN can determine chemotherapy responsiveness by promoting NLRP3-dependent antitumour immunity and suggest that myeloid PTEN might be a potential biomarker to predict chemotherapy responses."	1
"31901446"	"Su(var)2-10 and the SUMO Pathway Link piRNA-Guided Target Recognition to Chromatin Silencing.Regulation of transcription is the main mechanism responsible for precise control of gene expression. Whereas the majority of transcriptional regulation is mediated by DNA-binding transcription factors that bind to regulatory gene regions, an elegant alternative strategy employs small RNA guides, Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) to identify targets of transcriptional repression. Here, we show that in Drosophila the small ubiquitin-like protein SUMO and the SUMO E3 ligase Su(var)2-10 are required for piRNA-guided deposition of repressive chromatin marks and transcriptional silencing of piRNA targets. Su(var)2-10 links the piRNA-guided target recognition complex to the silencing effector by binding the piRNA/Piwi complex and inducing SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde histone methyltransferase effector. We propose that in Drosophila, the nuclear piRNA pathway has co-opted a conserved mechanism of SUMO-dependent recruitment of the SetDB1/Wde chromatin modifier to confer repression of genomic parasites."	1
"31968247"	"Constitutive Interferon Attenuates RIPK1/3-Mediated Cytokine Translation.Receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1) and 3 (RIPK3) are well known for their capacity to drive necroptosis via mixed-lineage kinase-like domain (MLKL). Recently, RIPK1/3 kinase activity has been shown to drive inflammation via activation of MAPK signaling. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying this kinase-dependent cytokine production remain poorly understood. In the present study, we establish that the kinase activity of RIPK1/3 regulates cytokine translation in mouse and human macrophages. Furthermore, we show that this inflammatory response is downregulated by type I interferon (IFN) signaling, independent of type I IFN-promoted cell death. Specifically, low-level constitutive IFN signaling attenuates RIPK-driven activation of cap-dependent translation initiation pathway components AKT, mTORC1, 4E-BP and eIF4E, while promoting RIPK-dependent cell death. Altogether, these data characterize constitutive IFN signaling as a regulator of RIPK-dependent inflammation and establish cap-dependent translation as a crucial checkpoint in the regulation of cytokine production."	1
"32460019"	"Regulation of Expression of Autophagy Genes by Atg8a-Interacting Partners Sequoia, YL-1, and Sir2 in Drosophila.Autophagy is the degradation of cytoplasmic material through the lysosomal pathway. One of the most studied autophagy-related proteins is LC3. Despite growing evidence that LC3 is enriched in the nucleus, its nuclear role is poorly understood. Here, we show that Drosophila Atg8a protein, homologous to mammalian LC3, interacts with the transcription factor Sequoia in a LIR motif-dependent manner. We show that Sequoia depletion induces autophagy in nutrient-rich conditions through the enhanced expression of autophagy genes. We show that Atg8a interacts with YL-1, a component of a nuclear acetyltransferase complex, and that it is acetylated in nutrient-rich conditions. We also show that Atg8a interacts with the deacetylase Sir2, which deacetylates Atg8a during starvation to activate autophagy. Our results suggest a mechanism of regulation of the expression of autophagy genes by Atg8a, which is linked to its acetylation status and its interaction with Sequoia, YL-1, and Sir2."	1
"32877667"	"CD49a Regulates Cutaneous Resident Memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T Cell Persistence and Response.CD8<sup>+</sup> tissue-resident memory T cells (T<sub>RM</sub>) persist at sites of previous infection, where they provide rapid local protection against pathogen challenge. CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> expressing the α1 chain (CD49a) of integrin VLA-1 have been identified within sites of resolved skin infection and in vitiligo lesions. We demonstrate that CD49a is expressed early following T cell activation in vivo, and TGF-β and IL-12 induce CD49a expression by CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in vitro. Despite this rapid expression, CD49a is not required for the generation of a primary CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell response to cutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, migration of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells across the epidermal basement membrane, or positioning of T<sub>RM</sub> within basal epidermis. Rather, CD49a supports CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> persistence within skin, regulates epidermal CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> dendritic extensions, and increases the frequency of IFN-γ<sup>+</sup> CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub> following local antigen challenge. Our results suggest that CD49a promotes optimal cutaneous CD8<sup>+</sup> T<sub>RM</sub>-mediated immunity."	1
"32268100"	"NKT Cells Join the Two Step for Inflammasome-Independent IL-1β Release.The cytokine interleukin-1β (IL-1β) is critical for antimicrobial defenses; the inflammasome pathway typically controls IL-1β release, but pathogens often evade this pathway. In this issue, Donado et al. (2020) describe an alternative, two-cell model, to instruct inflammasome-independent IL-1β release."	0
"32101754"	"Sensing Actin Dynamics through Adherens Junctions.We study punctate adherens junctions (pAJs) to determine how short-lived cadherin clusters and relatively stable actin bundles interact despite differences in dynamics. We show that pAJ-linked bundles consist of two distinct regions-the bundle stalk (AJ-BS) and a tip (AJ-BT) positioned between cadherin clusters and the stalk. The tip differs from the stalk in a number of ways: it is devoid of the actin-bundling protein calponin, and exhibits a much faster F-actin turnover rate. While F-actin in the stalk displays centripetal movement, the F-actin in the tip is immobile. The F-actin turnover in both the tip and stalk is dependent on cadherin cluster stability, which in turn is regulated by F-actin. The close bidirectional coupling between the stability of cadherin and associated F-actin shows how pAJs, and perhaps other AJs, allow cells to sense and coordinate the dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton in neighboring cells-a mechanism we term ""dynasensing."""	0
"32375040"	"Fine Chromatin-Driven Mechanism of Transcription Interference by Antisense Noncoding Transcription.Eukaryotic genomes are almost entirely transcribed by RNA polymerase II. Consequently, the transcription of long noncoding RNAs often overlaps with coding gene promoters, triggering potential gene repression through a poorly characterized mechanism of transcription interference. Here, we propose a comprehensive model of chromatin-based transcription interference in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (S. cerevisiae). By using a noncoding transcription-inducible strain, we analyze the relationship between antisense elongation and coding sense repression, nucleosome occupancy, and transcription-associated histone modifications using near-base pair resolution techniques. We show that antisense noncoding transcription leads to the deacetylation of a subpopulation of -1/+1 nucleosomes associated with increased H3K36me3. Reduced acetylation results in the decreased binding of the RSC chromatin remodeler at -1/+1 nucleosomes and subsequent sliding into the nucleosome-depleted region hindering pre-initiation complex association. Finally, we extend our model by showing that natural antisense noncoding transcription significantly represses ∼20% of S. cerevisiae genes through this chromatin-based transcription interference mechanism."	0
"32703900"	"Regulation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 dynamics through multisite phosphorylation by GSK3.Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 (eIF6) is essential for the synthesis of 60S ribosomal subunits and for regulating the association of 60S and 40S subunits. A mechanistic understanding of how eIF6 modulates translation in response to stress, specifically starvation-induced stress, is lacking. We here show a novel mode of eIF6 regulation by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) that is predominantly active in response to serum starvation. Both GSK3α and GSK3β phosphorylate human eIF6. Multiple residues in the C terminus of eIF6 are phosphorylated by GSK3 in a sequential manner. In response to serum starvation, eIF6 accumulates in the cytoplasm, and this altered localization depends on phosphorylation by GSK3. Disruption of eIF6 phosphorylation exacerbates the translation inhibitory response to serum starvation and stalls cell growth. These results suggest that eIF6 regulation by GSK3 contributes to the attenuation of global protein synthesis that is critical for adaptation to starvation-induced stress."	1
"32698000"	"Cohesin-Dependent and -Independent Mechanisms Mediate Chromosomal Contacts between Promoters and Enhancers.It is currently assumed that 3D chromosomal organization plays a central role in transcriptional control. However, depletion of cohesin and CTCF affects the steady-state levels of only a minority of transcripts. Here, we use high-resolution Capture Hi-C to interrogate the dynamics of chromosomal contacts of all annotated human gene promoters upon degradation of cohesin and CTCF. We show that a majority of promoter-anchored contacts are lost in these conditions, but many contacts with distinct properties are maintained, and some new ones are gained. The rewiring of contacts between promoters and active enhancers upon cohesin degradation associates with rapid changes in target gene transcription as detected by SLAM sequencing (SLAM-seq). These results provide a mechanistic explanation for the limited, but consistent, effects of cohesin and CTCF depletion on steady-state transcription and suggest the existence of both cohesin-dependent and -independent mechanisms of enhancer-promoter pairing."	0
"32348766"	"ADAR1 Facilitates KSHV Lytic Reactivation by Modulating the RLR-Dependent Signaling Pathway.Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is a double-stranded DNA virus that exhibits two alternative life cycles: latency and lytic reactivation. During lytic reactivation, host innate immune responses are activated to restrict viral replication. Here, we report that adenosine deaminase acting on RNA 1 (ADAR1) is required for optimal KSHV lytic reactivation from latency. Knockdown of ADAR1 in KSHV latently infected cells inhibits viral gene transcription and viral replication during KSHV lytic reactivation. ADAR1 deficiency also significantly increases type I interferon production during KSHV reactivation. This increased interferon response is dependent on activation of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) pathway. Depletion of ADAR1 together with either RIG-I, MDA5, or MAVS reverses the increased IFNβ production and rescues KSHV lytic replication. These data suggest that ADAR1 serves as a proviral factor for KSHV lytic reactivation and facilitates DNA virus reactivation by dampening the RLR pathway-mediated innate immune response."	0
"32571880"	"Structural and functional conservation of the programmed -1 ribosomal frameshift signal of SARS coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).Approximately 17 years after the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) epidemic, the world is currently facing the COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS corona virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). According to the most optimistic projections, it will take more than a year to develop a vaccine, so the best short-term strategy may lie in identifying virus-specific targets for small molecule-based interventions. All coronaviruses utilize a molecular mechanism called programmed -1 ribosomal frameshift (-1 PRF) to control the relative expression of their proteins. Previous analyses of SARS-CoV have revealed that it employs a structurally unique three-stemmed mRNA pseudoknot that stimulates high -1 PRF rates and that it also harbors a -1 PRF attenuation element. Altering -1 PRF activity impairs virus replication, suggesting that this activity may be therapeutically targeted. Here, we comparatively analyzed the SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 frameshift signals. Structural and functional analyses revealed that both elements promote similar -1 PRF rates and that silent coding mutations in the slippery sites and in all three stems of the pseudoknot strongly ablate -1 PRF activity. We noted that the upstream attenuator hairpin activity is also functionally retained in both viruses, despite differences in the primary sequence in this region. Small-angle X-ray scattering analyses indicated that the pseudoknots in SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 have the same conformation. Finally, a small molecule previously shown to bind the SARS-CoV pseudoknot and inhibit -1 PRF was similarly effective against -1 PRF in SARS-CoV-2, suggesting that such frameshift inhibitors may be promising lead compounds to combat the current COVID-19 pandemic."	0
"32877679"	"AMPAR-Dependent Synaptic Plasticity Initiates Cortical Remapping and Adaptive Behaviors during Sensory Experience.Cortical plasticity improves behaviors and helps recover lost functions after injury. However, the underlying synaptic mechanisms remain unclear. In mice, we show that trimming all but one whisker enhances sensory responses from the spared whisker in the barrel cortex and occludes whisker-mediated synaptic potentiation (w-Pot) in vivo. In addition, whisker-dependent behaviors that are initially impaired by single-whisker experience (SWE) rapidly recover when associated cortical regions remap. Cross-linking the surface GluA2 subunit of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) suppresses the expression of w-Pot, presumably by blocking AMPAR surface diffusion, in mice with all whiskers intact, indicating that synaptic potentiation in vivo requires AMPAR trafficking. We use this approach to demonstrate that w-Pot is required for SWE-mediated strengthening of synaptic inputs and initiates the recovery of previously learned skills during the early phases of SWE. Taken together, our data reveal that w-Pot mediates cortical remapping and behavioral improvement upon partial sensory deafferentation."	0
"30981630"	"Structural Basis of Dot1L Stimulation by Histone H2B Lysine 120 Ubiquitination.The essential histone H3 lysine 79 methyltransferase Dot1L regulates transcription and genomic stability and is deregulated in leukemia. The activity of Dot1L is stimulated by mono-ubiquitination of histone H2B on lysine 120 (H2BK120Ub); however, the detailed mechanism is not understood. We report cryo-EM structures of human Dot1L bound to (1) H2BK120Ub and (2) unmodified nucleosome substrates at 3.5 Å and 4.9 Å, respectively. Comparison of both structures, complemented with biochemical experiments, provides critical insights into the mechanism of Dot1L stimulation by H2BK120Ub. Both structures show Dot1L binding to the same extended surface of the histone octamer. In yeast, this surface is used by silencing proteins involved in heterochromatin formation, explaining the mechanism of their competition with Dot1. These results provide a strong foundation for understanding conserved crosstalk between histone modifications found at actively transcribed genes and offer a general model of how ubiquitin might regulate the activity of chromatin enzymes."	0
"32187534"	"Spatiotemporal Decline of BMP Signaling Activity in Neural Progenitors Mediates Fate Transition and Safeguards Neurogenesis.Neural progenitors undergo temporal fate transition to generate diversified neurons in stereotyped sequence during development. However, the molecular machineries driving progenitor fate change remain unclear. Here, using the cerebellum as a platform, we demonstrate that the temporal dynamics of a dorsoventral bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)/SMAD signaling gradient orchestrates the transition from early to late phase of neurogenesis. Initially, high BMP/SMAD activity in cerebellum neural progenitors transcriptionally represses the late-born interneuron fate determinant Gsx1. As development proceeds, gradual decline in SMAD activities from ventral to dorsal progenitors progressively alleviates suppression on Gsx1 and allows transition of progenitor fate. Manipulating the BMP signaling dynamics can either lead to an immediate halt or rapid acceleration of the temporal fate switch, thus unbalancing the generation of distinct neuronal populations. Our study thus demonstrates that neural progenitors possess inherent competence to produce late-born neurons, yet identity transition is mechanistically executed by precisely timed and positioned reduction of repressors for late-fate determinants."	0
"31968249"	"The Mitochondrial Protein MAVS Stabilizes p53 to Suppress Tumorigenesis.Recent reports have shown the critical role of the mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS) protein in virus-induced apoptosis, but the involvement of MAVS in tumorigenesis is still poorly understood. Herein, we report that MAVS is a key regulator of p53 activation and is critical for protecting against tumorigenesis. We find that MAVS promotes p53-dependent cell death in response to DNA damage. MAVS interacts with p53 and mediates p53 mitochondrial recruitment under genotoxic stress. Mechanistically, MAVS inhibits p53 ubiquitination by blocking the formation of the p53-murine double-minute 2 (MDM2) complex, leading to the stabilization of p53. Notably, compared with their wild-type littermates, MAVS knockout mice display decreased resistance to azoxymethane (AOM) or AOM/dextran sulfate sodium salt (DSS)-induced colon cancer. MAVS expression is significantly downregulated in human colon cancer tissues. These results unveil roles for MAVS in DNA damage response and tumor suppression."	1
"32814047"	"Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzyme 2S Enhances Viral Replication by Inhibiting Type I IFN Production through Recruiting USP15 to Deubiquitinate TBK1.Type I interferon (IFN) plays an essential role in the host innate immune responses. Several ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) family members were reported to regulate type I IFN production and host antiviral immune responses. However, the molecular mechanisms are still not fully understood. Here, we report that UBE2S acts as a negative regulator in the type I IFN signaling pathway. Ectopic expression of UBE2S inhibits host antiviral immune responses and enhances viral replications, whereas deficiency of UBE2S enhances host antiviral immune responses and suppresses viral replications both in vitro and in vivo. Inhibition of type І IFN production by UBE2S is independent on its E2 and E3 enzymic activity. Mechanistically, UBE2S interacts with TBK1 and recruits ubiquitin-specific protease 15 (USP15) to remove Lys63 (K63)-linked polyubiquitin chains of TBK1. Our findings reveal a role of the UBE2S-USP15-TBK1 axis in the regulation of host antiviral innate immune responses."	1
"31914400"	"DEAD-Box Helicase 18 Counteracts PRC2 to Safeguard Ribosomal DNA in Pluripotency Regulation.Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) exhibit high levels of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) transcription and ribosome biogenesis. Here, we reveal an unexpected role for an essential DEAD-box helicase, DDX18, in antagonizing the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) to prevent deposition of the repressive H3K27me3 mark onto rDNA in pluripotent cells. DDX18 binds and sequesters PRC2 in the outer layer of the nucleolus and counteracts PRC2 complex formation in vivo and in vitro. DDX18 knockdown leads to increased occupancy of PRC2 and H3K27me3 at rDNA loci, accompanied by drastically decreased rRNA transcription and reduced ribosomal protein expression and translation. Auxin-induced rapid degradation of DDX18 enhances PRC2 binding at rDNA. The inhibition of PRC2 partially rescues the effects of DDX18 depletion on rRNA transcription and ESC self-renewal. These results demonstrate a critical role for DDX18 in safeguarding the chromatin and transcriptional integrity of rDNA by counteracting the epigenetic silencing machinery to promote pluripotency."	1
"31230815"	"TAM Kinases Promote Necroptosis by Regulating Oligomerization of MLKL.Necroptosis, a cell death pathway mediated by the RIPK1-RIPK3-MLKL signaling cascade downstream of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), has been implicated in many inflammatory diseases. Members of the TAM (Tyro3, Axl, and Mer) family of receptor tyrosine kinases are known for their anti-apoptotic, oncogenic, and anti-inflammatory roles. Here, we identify an unexpected role of TAM kinases as promoters of necroptosis, a pro-inflammatory necrotic cell death. Pharmacologic or genetic targeting of TAM kinases results in a potent inhibition of necroptotic death in various cellular models. We identify phosphorylation of MLKL Tyr376 as a direct point of input from TAM kinases into the necroptosis signaling. The oligomerization of MLKL, but not its membranal translocation or phosphorylation by RIPK3, is controlled by TAM kinases. Importantly, both knockout and inhibition of TAM kinases protect mice from systemic inflammatory response syndrome. In conclusion, this study discovers that immunosuppressant TAM kinases are promoters of pro-inflammatory necroptosis, shedding light on the biological complexity of the regulation of inflammation."	1
"32540968"	"Dysfunctional telomeres trigger cellular senescence mediated by cyclic GMP-AMP synthase.Defective DNA damage response (DDR) signaling is a common mechanism that initiates and maintains the cellular senescence phenotype. Dysfunctional telomeres activate DDR signaling, genomic instability, and cellular senescence, but the links among these events remains unclear. Here, using an array of biochemical and imaging techniques, including a highly regulatable CRISPR/Cas9 strategy to induce DNA double strand breaks specifically in the telomeres, ChIP, telomere immunofluorescence, fluorescence <i>in situ</i> hybridization (FISH), micronuclei imaging, and the telomere shortest length assay (TeSLA), we show that chromosome mis-segregation due to imperfect DDR signaling in response to dysfunctional telomeres creates a preponderance of chromatin fragments in the cytosol, which leads to a premature senescence phenotype. We found that this phenomenon is caused not by telomere shortening, but by cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) recognizing cytosolic chromatin fragments and then activating the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) cytosolic DNA-sensing pathway and downstream interferon signaling. Significantly, genetic and pharmacological manipulation of cGAS not only attenuated immune signaling, but also prevented premature cellular senescence in response to dysfunctional telomeres. The findings of our study uncover a cellular intrinsic mechanism involving the cGAS-mediated cytosolic self-DNA-sensing pathway that initiates premature senescence independently of telomere shortening."	0
"31442425"	"Plasticity of the Cullin-RING Ligase Repertoire Shapes Sensitivity to Ligand-Induced Protein Degradation.Inducing protein degradation via small molecules is a transformative therapeutic paradigm. Although structural requirements of target degradation are emerging, mechanisms determining the cellular response to small-molecule degraders remain poorly understood. To systematically delineate effectors required for targeted protein degradation, we applied genome-scale CRISPR/Cas9 screens for five drugs that hijack different substrate receptors (SRs) of cullin RING ligases (CRLs) to induce target proteolysis. We found that sensitivity to small-molecule degraders is dictated by shared and drug-specific modulator networks, including the COP9 signalosome and the SR exchange factor CAND1. Genetic or pharmacologic perturbation of these effectors impairs CRL plasticity and arrests a wide array of ligases in a constitutively active state. Resulting defects in CRL decommissioning prompt widespread CRL auto-degradation that confers resistance to multiple degraders. Collectively, our study informs on regulation and architecture of CRLs amenable for targeted protein degradation and outlines biomarkers and putative resistance mechanisms for upcoming clinical investigation."	0
"32692974"	"Translational Repression of G3BP in Cancer and Germ Cells Suppresses Stress Granules and Enhances Stress Tolerance.Stress granules (SGs) are membrane-less ribonucleoprotein condensates that form in response to various stress stimuli via phase separation. SGs act as a protective mechanism to cope with acute stress, but persistent SGs have cytotoxic effects that are associated with several age-related diseases. Here, we demonstrate that the testis-specific protein, MAGE-B2, increases cellular stress tolerance by suppressing SG formation through translational inhibition of the key SG nucleator G3BP. MAGE-B2 reduces G3BP protein levels below the critical concentration for phase separation and suppresses SG initiation. Knockout of the MAGE-B2 mouse ortholog or overexpression of G3BP1 confers hypersensitivity of the male germline to heat stress in vivo. Thus, MAGE-B2 provides cytoprotection to maintain mammalian spermatogenesis, a highly thermosensitive process that must be preserved throughout reproductive life. These results demonstrate a mechanism that allows for tissue-specific resistance against stress and could aid in the development of male fertility therapies."	1
"32753672"	"Mammalian Atg8 proteins and the autophagy factor IRGM control mTOR and TFEB at a regulatory node critical for responses to pathogens.Autophagy is a homeostatic process with multiple functions in mammalian cells. Here, we show that mammalian Atg8 proteins (mAtg8s) and the autophagy regulator IRGM control TFEB, a transcriptional activator of the lysosomal system. IRGM directly interacted with TFEB and promoted the nuclear translocation of TFEB. An mAtg8 partner of IRGM, GABARAP, interacted with TFEB. Deletion of all mAtg8s or GABARAPs affected the global transcriptional response to starvation and downregulated subsets of TFEB targets. IRGM and GABARAPs countered the action of mTOR as a negative regulator of TFEB. This was suppressed by constitutively active RagB, an activator of mTOR. Infection of macrophages with the membrane-permeabilizing microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis or infection of target cells by HIV elicited TFEB activation in an IRGM-dependent manner. Thus, IRGM and its interactors mAtg8s close a loop between the autophagosomal pathway and the control of lysosomal biogenesis by TFEB, thus ensuring coordinated activation of the two systems that eventually merge during autophagy."	1
"32521280"	"ELKS1 Captures Rab6-Marked Vesicular Cargo in Presynaptic Nerve Terminals.Neurons face unique transport challenges. They need to deliver cargo over long axonal distances and to many presynaptic nerve terminals. Rab GTPases are master regulators of vesicular traffic, but essential presynaptic Rabs have not been identified. Here, we find that Rab6, a Golgi-derived GTPase for constitutive secretion, associates with mobile axonal cargo and localizes to nerve terminals. ELKS1 is a stationary presynaptic protein with Golgin homology that binds to Rab6. Knockout and rescue experiments for ELKS1 and Rab6 establish that ELKS1 captures Rab6 cargo. The ELKS1-Rab6-capturing mechanism can be transferred to mitochondria by mistargeting ELKS1 or Rab6 to them. We conclude that nerve terminals have repurposed mechanisms from constitutive exocytosis for their highly regulated secretion. By employing Golgin-like mechanisms with anchored ELKS extending its coiled-coils to capture Rab6 cargo, they have spatially separated cargo capture from fusion. ELKS complexes connect to active zones and may mediate vesicle progression toward release sites."	1
"32726624"	"An Apoptotic Caspase Network Safeguards Cell Death Induction in Pyroptotic Macrophages.Pyroptosis has emerged as a key mechanism by which inflammasomes promote host defense against microbial pathogens and sterile inflammation. Gasdermin D (GSDMD)-mediated cell lysis is a hallmark of pyroptosis, but our understanding of cell death signaling during pyroptosis is fragmented. Here, we show that independently of GSDMD-mediated plasma membrane permeabilization, inflammasome receptors engage caspase-1 and caspase-8, both of which redundantly promote activation of apoptotic executioner caspase-3 and caspase-7 in pyroptotic macrophages. Impaired GSDMD pore formation downstream of caspase-1 and caspase-8 activation suffices to unmask the apoptotic phenotype of pyroptotic macrophages. Combined inactivation of initiator caspase-1 and caspase-8, or executioner caspase-3 and caspase-7, is required to abolish inflammasome-induced DEVDase activity during pyroptosis and in apoptotic Gsdmd<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Collectively, these results unveil a robust apoptotic caspase network that is activated in parallel to GSDMD-mediated plasma membrane permeabilization and safeguards cell death induction in pyroptotic macrophages."	1
"32649882"	"Tandem Deubiquitination and Acetylation of SPRTN Promotes DNA-Protein Crosslink Repair and Protects against Aging.DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are highly toxic DNA lesions that threaten genomic integrity. Recent findings highlight that SPRTN, a specialized DNA-dependent metalloprotease, is a central player in proteolytic cleavage of DPCs. Previous studies suggest that SPRTN deubiquitination is important for its chromatin association and activation. However, the regulation and consequences of SPRTN deubiquitination remain unclear. Here we report that, in response to DPC induction, the deubiquitinase VCPIP1/VCIP135 is phosphorylated and activated by ATM/ATR. VCPIP1, in turn, deubiquitinates SPRTN and promotes its chromatin relocalization. Deubiquitination of SPRTN is required for its subsequent acetylation, which promotes SPRTN relocation to the site of chromatin damage. Furthermore, Vcpip1 knockout mice are prone to genomic instability and premature aging. We propose a model where two sequential post-translational modifications (PTMs) regulate SPRTN chromatin accessibility to repair DPCs and maintain genomic stability and a healthy lifespan."	1
"32846119"	"Representation of Olfactory Information in Organized Active Neural Ensembles in the Hypothalamus.The internal representation of sensory information via coherent activation of specific pathways in the nervous system is key to appropriate behavioral responses. Little is known about how chemical stimuli that elicit instinctive behaviors lead to organized patterns of activity in the hypothalamus. Here, we study how a wide range of chemosignals form a discernible map of olfactory information in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH) and show that different stimuli entail distinct active neural ensembles. Importantly, we demonstrate that this map depends on functional inputs from the vomeronasal organ. We present evidence that the spatial locations of active VMH ensembles are correlated with activation of distinct vomeronasal receptors and that disjunct VMH ensembles exhibit differential projection patterns. Moreover, active ensembles with distinct spatial locations are not necessarily associated with different behavior categories, such as defensive or social, calling for a revision of the currently accepted model of VMH organization."	0
"32294432"	"Disentangling Pro-mitotic Signaling during Cell Cycle Progression using Time-Resolved Single-Cell Imaging.Cells rely on input from extracellular growth factors to control their proliferation during development and adult homeostasis. Such mitogenic inputs are transmitted through multiple signaling pathways that synergize to precisely regulate cell cycle entry and progression. Although the architecture of these signaling networks has been characterized in molecular detail, their relative contribution, especially at later cell cycle stages, remains largely unexplored. By combining quantitative time-resolved measurements of fluorescent reporters in untransformed human cells with targeted pharmacological inhibitors and statistical analysis, we quantify epidermal growth factor (EGF)-induced signal processing in individual cells over time and dissect the dynamic contribution of downstream pathways. We define signaling features that encode information about extracellular ligand concentrations and critical time windows for inducing cell cycle transitions. We show that both extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) activity are necessary for initial cell cycle entry, whereas only PI3K affects the duration of S phase at later stages of mitogenic signaling."	0
"32580945"	"Adipose mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles containing microRNA-26a-5p target TLR4 and protect against diabetic nephropathy.Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a complication of diabetes that is increasing in prevalence in China. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) carrying microRNAs (miRs) may represent a useful tool in the development of therapies for DN. Here, we report that EVs released by adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) during DN contain a microRNA, miR-26a-5p, that suppresses DN. Using bioinformatic analyses, we identified differentially expressed miRs in EVs from ADSCs and in DN and predicted downstream regulatory target genes. We isolated mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) from adipose tissues and collected EVs from the ADSCs. We exposed mouse glomerular podocytes and MP5 cells to high glucose (HG), ADSC-derived EVs, miR-26a-5p inhibitor/antagomir, Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) plasmids, or the NF-κB pathway activator (phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate, or PMA). We used the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and flow cytometry to investigate the impact of miR-26a-5p on cell viability and apoptosis and validated the results of these assays with <i>in vivo</i> experiments in nude mice. We found that in DN, miR-26a-5p is expressed at very low levels, whereas TLR4 is highly expressed. Of note, EVs from ADSCs ameliorated the pathological symptoms of DN in diabetic mice and transferred miR-26a-5p to HG-induced MP5 cells, improving viability while suppressing the apoptosis of MP5 cells. We also found that miR-26a-5p protects HG-induced MP5 cells from injury by targeting TLR4, inactivating the NF-κB pathway, and downregulating vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA). Moreover, ADSC-derived EVs transferred miR-26a-5p to mouse glomerular podocytes, which ameliorated DN pathology. These findings suggest that miR-26a-5p from ADSC-derived EVs protects against DN."	0
"30527665"	"Phosphorylated RB Promotes Cancer Immunity by Inhibiting NF-κB Activation and PD-L1 Expression.Aberrant expression of programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) in tumor cells promotes cancer progression by suppressing cancer immunity. The retinoblastoma protein RB is a tumor suppressor known to regulate the cell cycle, DNA damage response, and differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that RB interacts with nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) protein p65 and that their interaction is primarily dependent on CDK4/6-mediated serine-249/threonine-252 (S249/T252) phosphorylation of RB. RNA-seq analysis shows a subset of NF-κB pathway genes including PD-L1 are selectively upregulated by RB knockdown or CDK4/6 inhibitor. S249/T252-phosphorylated RB inversely correlates with PD-L1 expression in patient samples. Expression of a RB-derived S249/T252 phosphorylation-mimetic peptide suppresses radiotherapy-induced upregulation of PD-L1 and augments therapeutic efficacy of radiation in vivo. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized tumor suppressor function of hyperphosphorylated RB in suppressing NF-κB activity and PD-L1 expression and suggest that the RB-NF-κB axis can be exploited to overcome cancer immune evasion triggered by conventional or targeted therapies."	1
"32905766"	"Mapping Neutralizing Antibody Epitope Specificities to an HIV Env Trimer in Immunized and in Infected Rhesus Macaques.BG505 SOSIP is a well-characterized near-native recombinant HIV Envelope (Env) trimer that holds promise as part of a sequential HIV immunogen regimen to induce broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs). Rhesus macaques are considered the most appropriate pre-clinical animal model for monitoring antibody (Ab) responses. Accordingly, we report here the isolation of 45 BG505 autologous neutralizing antibodies (nAbs) with multiple specificities from SOSIP-immunized and BG505 SHIV-infected rhesus macaques. We associate the most potent neutralization with two epitopes: the C3/V5 and V1/V3 regions. We show that all of the nAbs bind in close proximity to known bnAb epitopes and might therefore sterically hinder elicitation of bnAbs. We also identify a ""public clonotype"" that targets the immunodominant C3/V5 nAb epitope, which suggests that common antibody rearrangements might help determine humoral responses to Env immunogens. The results highlight important considerations for vaccine design in anticipation of results of the BG505 SOSIP trimer in clinical trials."	0
"31973890"	"p53 Activates the Long Noncoding RNA Pvt1b to Inhibit Myc and Suppress Tumorigenesis.The tumor suppressor p53 transcriptionally activates target genes to suppress cellular proliferation during stress. p53 has also been implicated in the repression of the proto-oncogene Myc, but the mechanism has remained unclear. Here, we identify Pvt1b, a p53-dependent isoform of the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) Pvt1, expressed 50 kb downstream of Myc, which becomes induced by DNA damage or oncogenic signaling and accumulates near its site of transcription. We show that production of the Pvt1b RNA is necessary and sufficient to suppress Myc transcription in cis without altering the chromatin organization of the locus. Inhibition of Pvt1b increases Myc levels and transcriptional activity and promotes cellular proliferation. Furthermore, Pvt1b loss accelerates tumor growth, but not tumor progression, in an autochthonous mouse model of lung cancer. These findings demonstrate that Pvt1b acts at the intersection of the p53 and Myc transcriptional networks to reinforce the anti-proliferative activities of p53."	1
"31914388"	"The Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Delta Regulates Developmental Neurogenesis.PTPRD is a receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase that is genetically associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we asked whether Ptprd mutations cause aberrant neural development by perturbing neurogenesis in the murine cortex. We show that loss of Ptprd causes increases in neurogenic transit-amplifying intermediate progenitor cells and cortical neurons and perturbations in neuronal localization. These effects are intrinsic to neural precursor cells since acute Ptprd knockdown causes similar perturbations. PTPRD mediates these effects by dephosphorylating receptor tyrosine kinases, including TrkB and PDGFRβ, and loss of Ptprd causes the hyperactivation of TrkB and PDGFRβ and their downstream MEK-ERK signaling pathway in neural precursor cells. Moreover, inhibition of aberrant TrkB or MEK activation rescues the increased neurogenesis caused by knockdown or homozygous loss of Ptprd. These results suggest that PTPRD regulates receptor tyrosine kinases to ensure appropriate numbers of intermediate progenitor cells and neurons, suggesting a mechanism for its genetic association with neurodevelopmental disorders."	1
"32822587"	"Functional Interplay between Histone H2B ADP-Ribosylation and Phosphorylation Controls Adipogenesis.Although ADP-ribosylation of histones by PARP-1 has been linked to genotoxic stress responses, its role in physiological processes and gene expression has remained elusive. We found that NAD<sup>+</sup>-dependent ADP-ribosylation of histone H2B-Glu35 by small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA)-activated PARP-1 inhibits AMP kinase-mediated phosphorylation of adjacent H2B-Ser36, which is required for the proadipogenic gene expression program. The activity of PARP-1 on H2B requires NMNAT-1, a nuclear NAD<sup>+</sup> synthase, which directs PARP-1 catalytic activity to Glu and Asp residues. ADP-ribosylation of Glu35 and the subsequent reduction of H2B-Ser36 phosphorylation inhibits the differentiation of adipocyte precursors in cultured cells. Parp1 knockout in preadipocytes in a mouse lineage-tracing genetic model increases adipogenesis, leading to obesity. Collectively, our results demonstrate a functional interplay between H2B-Glu35 ADP-ribosylation and H2B-Ser36 phosphorylation that controls adipogenesis."	1
"30595439"	"Helicase Subunit Cdc45 Targets the Checkpoint Kinase Rad53 to Both Replication Initiation and Elongation Complexes after Fork Stalling.Across eukaryotes, disruption of DNA replication causes an S phase checkpoint response, which regulates multiple processes, including inhibition of replication initiation and fork stabilization. How these events are coordinated remains poorly understood. Here, we show that the replicative helicase component Cdc45 targets the checkpoint kinase Rad53 to distinct replication complexes in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Rad53 binds to forkhead-associated (FHA) interaction motifs in an unstructured loop region of Cdc45, which is phosphorylated by Rad53 itself, and this interaction is necessary for the inhibition of origin firing through Sld3. Cdc45 also recruits Rad53 to stalled replication forks, which we demonstrate is important for the response to replication stress. Finally, we show that a Cdc45 mutation found in patients with Meier-Gorlin syndrome disrupts the functional interaction with Rad53 in yeast. Together, we present a single mechanism by which a checkpoint kinase targets replication initiation and elongation complexes, which may be relevant to human disease."	1
"32937140"	"Endogenous Cyclin D1 Promotes the Rate of Onset and Magnitude of Mitogenic Signaling via Akt1 Ser473 Phosphorylation.Cyclin D1 encodes the regulatory subunit of a holoenzyme that phosphorylates RB and functions as a collaborative nuclear oncogene. The serine threonine kinase Akt plays a pivotal role in the control of cellular metabolism, survival, and mitogenic signaling. Herein, Akt1-mediated phosphorylation of downstream substrates in the mammary gland is reduced by cyclin D1 genetic deletion and is induced by mammary-gland-targeted cyclin D1 overexpression. Cyclin D1 is associated with Akt1 and augments the rate of onset and maximal cellular Akt1 activity induced by mitogens. Cyclin D1 is identified in a cytoplasmic-membrane-associated pool, and cytoplasmic-membrane-localized cyclin D1-but not nuclear-localized cyclin D1-recapitulates Akt1 transcriptional function. These studies identify a novel extranuclear function of cyclin D1 to enhance proliferative functions via augmenting Akt1 phosphorylation at Ser473."	1
"32521268"	"Vangl2 in the Dentate Network Modulates Pattern Separation and Pattern Completion.The organization of spatial information, including pattern completion and pattern separation processes, relies on the hippocampal circuits, yet the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying these two processes are elusive. Here, we find that loss of Vangl2, a core PCP gene, results in opposite effects on pattern completion and pattern separation processes. Mechanistically, we show that Vangl2 loss maintains young postmitotic granule cells in an immature state, providing increased cellular input for pattern separation. The genetic ablation of Vangl2 disrupts granule cell morpho-functional maturation and further prevents CaMKII and GluA1 phosphorylation, disrupting the stabilization of AMPA receptors. As a functional consequence, LTP at lateral perforant path-GC synapses is impaired, leading to defects in pattern completion behavior. In conclusion, we show that Vangl2 exerts a bimodal regulation on young and mature GCs, and its disruption leads to an imbalance in hippocampus-dependent pattern completion and separation processes."	0
"32006464"	"Localized Inhibition of Protein Phosphatase 1 by NUAK1 Promotes Spliceosome Activity and Reveals a MYC-Sensitive Feedback Control of Transcription.Deregulated expression of MYC induces a dependence on the NUAK1 kinase, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this dependence have not been fully clarified. Here, we show that NUAK1 is a predominantly nuclear protein that associates with a network of nuclear protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) interactors and that PNUTS, a nuclear regulatory subunit of PP1, is phosphorylated by NUAK1. Both NUAK1 and PNUTS associate with the splicing machinery. Inhibition of NUAK1 abolishes chromatin association of PNUTS, reduces spliceosome activity, and suppresses nascent RNA synthesis. Activation of MYC does not bypass the requirement for NUAK1 for spliceosome activity but significantly attenuates transcription inhibition. Consequently, NUAK1 inhibition in MYC-transformed cells induces global accumulation of RNAPII both at the pause site and at the first exon-intron boundary but does not increase mRNA synthesis. We suggest that NUAK1 inhibition in the presence of deregulated MYC traps non-productive RNAPII because of the absence of correctly assembled spliceosomes."	1
"32888436"	"Mitochondrial DNA Base Editing: Good Editing Things Still Come in Small Packages.The collaborative work of two HHMI groups, one at the University of Washington and the other at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, led to the development of a novel molecular tool to edit single bases in the mtDNA (Mok et al., 2020)."	0
"31626751"	"Alternative Splicing Regulatory Networks: Functions, Mechanisms, and Evolution.High-throughput sequencing-based methods and their applications in the study of transcriptomes have revolutionized our understanding of alternative splicing. Networks of functionally coordinated and biologically important alternative splicing events continue to be discovered in an ever-increasing diversity of cell types in the context of physiologically normal and disease states. These studies have been complemented by efforts directed at defining sequence codes governing splicing and their cognate trans-acting factors, which have illuminated important combinatorial principles of regulation. Additional studies have revealed critical roles of position-dependent, multivalent protein-RNA interactions that direct splicing outcomes. Investigations of evolutionary changes in RNA binding proteins, splice variants, and associated cis elements have further shed light on the emergence, mechanisms, and functions of splicing networks. Progress in these areas has emphasized the need for a coordinated, community-based effort to systematically address the functions of individual splice variants associated with normal and disease biology."	0
"32075754"	"Sen1 Is Recruited to Replication Forks via Ctf4 and Mrc1 and Promotes Genome Stability.DNA replication and RNA transcription compete for the same substrate during S phase. Cells have evolved several mechanisms to minimize such conflicts. Here, we identify the mechanism by which the transcription termination helicase Sen1 associates with replisomes. We show that the N terminus of Sen1 is both sufficient and necessary for replisome association and that it binds to the replisome via the components Ctf4 and Mrc1. We generated a separation of function mutant, sen1-3, which abolishes replisome binding without affecting transcription termination. We observe that the sen1-3 mutants show increased genome instability and recombination levels. Moreover, sen1-3 is synthetically defective with mutations in genes involved in RNA metabolism and the S phase checkpoint. RNH1 overexpression suppresses defects in the former, but not the latter. These findings illustrate how Sen1 plays a key function at replication forks during DNA replication to promote fork progression and chromosome stability."	1
"32049014"	"Hepatic DNAJB9 Drives Anabolic Biasing to Reduce Steatosis and Obesity.Nutrients stimulate the anabolic synthesis of proteins and lipids, but selective insulin resistance in obesity biases the anabolic program toward lipogenesis. Here, we report the identification of a DNAJB9-driven program that favors protein synthesis and energy production over lipid accumulation. We show there are two pools of DNAJB9 cochaperone. DNAJB9 in the ER lumen promotes the degradation of the lipogenic transcription factor SREBP1c through ERAD, whereas its counterpart on the ER membrane promotes the assembly of mTORC2 in the cytosol and stimulates the synthesis of proteins and ATP. The expression of Dnajb9 is induced by nutrients and downregulated in the obese mouse liver. Restoration of hepatic DNAJB9 expression effectively improves insulin sensitivity, restores protein synthesis, and suppresses food intake, accompanied by reduced hepatic steatosis and adiposity in multiple mouse models of obesity. Therefore, targeting the anabolic balance may provide a unique opportunity to tackle obesity and diabetes."	1
"31278054"	"TSPYL5 Depletion Induces Specific Death of ALT Cells through USP7-Dependent Proteasomal Degradation of POT1.A significant fraction (∼10%) of cancer cells maintain their telomere length via a telomerase-independent mechanism known as alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). There are no known molecular, ALT-specific, therapeutic targets. We have identified TSPYL5 (testis-specific Y-encoded-like protein 5) as a PML body component, co-localizing with ALT telomeres and critical for ALT<sup>+</sup> cell viability. TSPYL5 was described as an inhibitor of the USP7 deubiquitinase. We report that TSPYL5 prevents the poly-ubiquitination of POT1-a shelterin component-and protects POT1 from proteasomal degradation exclusively in ALT<sup>+</sup> cells. USP7 depletion rescued POT1 poly-ubiquitination and loss, suggesting that the deubiquitinase activates POT1 E3 ubiquitin ligase(s). Similarly, PML depletion suppressed POT1 poly-ubiquitination, suggesting an interplay between USP7 and PML to trigger POT1 degradation in TSPYL5-depleted ALT<sup>+</sup> cells. We demonstrate that ALT telomeres need to be protected from POT1 degradation in ALT-associated PML bodies and identify TSPYL5 as an ALT<sup>+</sup> cancer-specific therapeutic target."	1
"32726616"	"PHF7 Modulates BRDT Stability and Histone-to-Protamine Exchange during Spermiogenesis.Spermatogenesis is a complex process of sperm generation, including mitosis, meiosis, and spermiogenesis. During spermiogenesis, histones in post-meiotic spermatids are removed from chromatin and replaced by protamines. Although histone-to-protamine exchange is important for sperm nuclear condensation, the underlying regulatory mechanism is still poorly understood. Here, we identify PHD finger protein 7 (PHF7) as an E3 ubiquitin ligase for histone H3K14 in post-meiotic spermatids. Generation of Phf7-deficient mice and Phf7 C160A knockin mice with impaired E3 ubiquitin ligase activity reveals defects in histone-to-protamine exchange caused by dysregulation of histone removal factor Bromodomain, testis-specific (BRDT) in early condensing spermatids. Surprisingly, E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of PHF7 on histone ubiquitination leads to stabilization of BRDT by attenuating ubiquitination of BRDT. Collectively, our findings identify PHF7 as a critical factor for sperm chromatin condensation and contribute to mechanistic understanding of fundamental phenomenon of histone-to-protamine exchange and potential for drug development for the male reproduction system."	1
"30849388"	"Large-Scale, Quantitative Protein Assays on a High-Throughput DNA Sequencing Chip.High-throughput DNA sequencing techniques have enabled diverse approaches for linking DNA sequence to biochemical function. In contrast, assays of protein function have substantial limitations in terms of throughput, automation, and widespread availability. We have adapted an Illumina high-throughput sequencing chip to display an immense diversity of ribosomally translated proteins and peptides and then carried out fluorescence-based functional assays directly on this flow cell, demonstrating that a single, widely available high-throughput platform can perform both sequencing-by-synthesis and protein assays. We quantified the binding of the M2 anti-FLAG antibody to a library of 1.3 × 10<sup>4</sup> variant FLAG peptides, exploring non-additive effects of combinations of mutations and discovering a ""superFLAG"" epitope variant. We also measured the enzymatic activity of 1.56 × 10<sup>5</sup> molecular variants of full-length human O<sup>6</sup>-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (SNAP-tag). This comprehensive corpus of catalytic rates revealed amino acid interaction networks and cooperativity, linked positive cooperativity to structural proximity, and revealed ubiquitous positively cooperative interactions with histidine residues."	0
"32783943"	"Acetylation Stabilizes Phosphoglycerate Dehydrogenase by Disrupting the Interaction of E3 Ligase RNF5 to Promote Breast Tumorigenesis.Phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) is the first enzyme in the serine synthesis pathway in which it is also the rate-limiting enzyme. It is significantly upregulated in many cancers, especially breast cancer. However, the posttranslational mechanism of PHGDH upregulation in breast cancer is unknown. In this study, we find that RNF5, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is essential for the degradation of PHGDH protein. PHGDH is degraded by RNF5 to prevent the proliferation of breast cancer cells. The acetylation of PHGDH at K58 is able to disrupt the interaction of RNF5-PHGDH and promote the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Tip60 and SIRT2 regulate the reversible acetylation modification of PHGDH in response to glucose alteration. Moreover, PHGDH is significantly upregulated in samples of human breast cancer and is associated with decreased RNF5 expression. This implies a potential therapeutic target through the interference interaction of PHGDH-RNF5 to degrade PHGDH in breast cancer."	1
"31421981"	"Nucleo-cytoplasmic Partitioning of ARF Proteins Controls Auxin Responses in Arabidopsis thaliana.The phytohormone auxin plays crucial roles in nearly every aspect of plant growth and development. The auxin response factor (ARF) transcription factor family regulates auxin-responsive gene expression and exhibits nuclear localization in regions of high auxin responsiveness. Here we show that the ARF7 and ARF19 proteins accumulate in micron-sized assemblies within the cytoplasm of tissues with attenuated auxin responsiveness. We found that the intrinsically disordered middle region and the folded PB1 interaction domain of ARFs drive protein assembly formation. Mutation of a single lysine within the PB1 domain abrogates cytoplasmic assemblies, promotes ARF nuclear localization, and results in an altered transcriptome and morphological defects. Our data suggest a model in which ARF nucleo-cytoplasmic partitioning regulates auxin responsiveness, providing a mechanism for cellular competence for auxin signaling."	0
"31626748"	"Filament-like Assemblies of Intracellular Nucleic Acid Sensors: Commonalities and Differences.Self versus non-self discrimination by innate immune sensors is critical for mounting effective immune responses against pathogens while avoiding harmful auto-inflammatory reactions against the host. Foreign DNA and RNA sensors must discriminate between self versus non-self nucleic acids, despite their shared building blocks and similar physicochemical properties. Recent structural and biochemical studies suggest that multiple steps of filament-like assembly are required for the functions of several nucleic acid sensors. Here, we discuss ligand discrimination and oligomerization of RIG-I-like receptors, AIM2-like receptors, and cGAS. We discuss how filament-like assembly allows for robust and accurate discrimination of self versus non-self nucleic acids and how these assemblies enable sensing of multiple distinct features in foreign nucleic acids, including structure, length, and modifications. We also discuss how individual receptors differ in their assembly and disassembly mechanisms and how these differences contribute to the diversity in nucleic acid specificity and pathogen detection strategies."	0
"31155380"	"Single-Molecule Imaging Uncovers Rules Governing Nonsense-Mediated mRNA Decay.Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a surveillance system that degrades mRNAs containing a premature termination codon (PTC) and plays important roles in protein homeostasis and disease. The efficiency of NMD is variable, impacting the clinical outcome of genetic mutations. However, limited resolution of bulk analyses has hampered the study of NMD efficiency. Here, we develop an assay to visualize NMD of individual mRNA molecules in real time. We find that NMD occurs with equal probability during each round of translation of an mRNA molecule. However, this probability is variable and depends on the exon sequence downstream of the PTC, the PTC-to-intron distance, and the number of introns both upstream and downstream of the PTC. Additionally, a subpopulation of mRNAs can escape NMD, further contributing to variation in NMD efficiency. Our study uncovers real-time dynamics of NMD, reveals key mechanisms that influence NMD efficiency, and provides a powerful method to study NMD."	0
"31995759"	"PRMT1 Is Recruited via DNA-PK to Chromatin Where It Sustains the Senescence-Associated Secretory Phenotype in Response to Cisplatin.Protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) is overexpressed in various human cancers and linked to poor response to chemotherapy. Various PRMT1 inhibitors are currently under development; yet, we do not fully understand the mechanisms underpinning PRMT1 involvement in tumorigenesis and chemoresistance. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we identified PRMT1 as regulator of arginine methylation in ovarian cancer cells treated with cisplatin. We showed that DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) binds to and phosphorylates PRMT1 in response to cisplatin, inducing its chromatin recruitment and redirecting its enzymatic activity toward Arg3 of histone H4 (H4R3). On chromatin, the DNA-PK/PRMT1 axis induces senescence-associated secretory phenotype through H4R3me2a deposition at pro-inflammatory gene promoters. Finally, PRMT1 inhibition reduces the clonogenic growth of cancer cells exposed to low doses of cisplatin, sensitizing them to apoptosis. While unravelling the role of PRMT1 in response to genotoxic agents, our findings indicate the possibility of targeting PRMT1 to overcome chemoresistance in cancer."	1
"32853546"	"Coronavirus RNA Proofreading: Molecular Basis and Therapeutic Targeting.The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) that is wreaking havoc on worldwide public health and economies has heightened awareness about the lack of effective antiviral treatments for human coronaviruses (CoVs). Many current antivirals, notably nucleoside analogs (NAs), exert their effect by incorporation into viral genomes and subsequent disruption of viral replication and fidelity. The development of anti-CoV drugs has long been hindered by the capacity of CoVs to proofread and remove mismatched nucleotides during genome replication and transcription. Here, we review the molecular basis of the CoV proofreading complex and evaluate its potential as a drug target. We also consider existing nucleoside analogs and novel genomic techniques as potential anti-CoV therapeutics that could be used individually or in combination to target the proofreading mechanism."	0
"32540966"	"DnaB helicase is recruited to the replication initiation complex via binding of DnaA domain I to the lateral surface of the DnaB N-terminal domain.The DNA replication protein DnaA in <i>Escherichia coli</i> constructs higher-order complexes on the origin, <i>oriC</i>, to unwind this region. DnaB helicase is loaded onto unwound <i>oriC</i> via interactions with the DnaC loader and the DnaA complex. The DnaB-DnaC complex is recruited to the DnaA complex via stable binding of DnaB to DnaA domain I. The DnaB-DnaC complex is then directed to unwound <i>oriC</i> via a weak interaction between DnaB and DnaA domain III. Previously, we showed that Phe<sup>46</sup> in DnaA domain I binds to DnaB. Here, we searched for the DnaA domain I-binding site in DnaB. The DnaB L160A variant was impaired in binding to DnaA complex on <i>oriC</i> but retained its DnaC-binding and helicase activities. DnaC binding moderately stimulated DnaA binding of DnaB L160A, and loading of DnaB L160A onto <i>oriC</i> was consistently and moderately inhibited. In a helicase assay with partly single-stranded DNA bearing a DnaA-binding site, DnaA stimulated DnaB loading, which was strongly inhibited in DnaB L160A even in the presence of DnaC. DnaB L160A was functionally impaired <i>in vivo</i> On the basis of these findings, we propose that DnaB Leu<sup>160</sup> interacts with DnaA domain I Phe<sup>46</sup> DnaB Leu<sup>160</sup> is exposed on the lateral surface of the N-terminal domain, which can explain unobstructed interactions of DnaA domain I-bound DnaB with DnaC, DnaG primase, and DnaA domain III. We propose a probable structure for the DnaA-DnaB-DnaC complex, which could be relevant to the process of DnaB loading onto <i>oriC</i>."	0
"31940492"	"FBXW7 Confers Radiation Survival by Targeting p53 for Degradation.The tumor suppressor p53 plays a critical role in integrating a wide variety of stress responses. Therefore, p53 levels are precisely regulated by multiple ubiquitin ligases. In this study, we report that FBXW7, a substrate recognition component of the SKP1-CUL1-F-box (SCF) E3 ligase, interacts with and targets p53 for polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation after exposure to ionizing radiation or etoposide. Mechanistically, DNA damage activates ATM to phosphorylate p53 on Ser33 and Ser37, which facilitates the FBXW7 binding and subsequent p53 degradation by SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup>. Inactivation of ATM or SCF<sup>FBXW7</sup> by small molecular inhibitors or genetic knockdown/knockout approaches extends the p53 protein half-life upon DNA damage in an MDM2-independent manner. Biologically, FBXW7 inactivation sensitizes cancer cells to radiation or etoposide by stabilizing p53 to induce cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. Taken together, our study elucidates a mechanism by which FBXW7 confers cancer cell survival during radiotherapy or chemotherapy via p53 targeting."	1
"32649864"	"Potential Causes and Consequences of Gastrointestinal Disorders during a SARS-CoV-2 Infection.Coronaviruses cause several human diseases, including severe acute respiratory syndrome. The global coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has become a huge threat to humans. Intensive research on the pathogenic mechanisms used by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is urgently needed-notably to identify potential drug targets. Clinical studies of patients with COVID-19 have shown that gastrointestinal disorders appear to precede or follow the respiratory symptoms. Here, we review gastrointestinal disorders in patients with COVID-19, suggest hypothetical mechanisms leading to gut symptoms, and discuss the potential consequences of gastrointestinal disorders on the outcome of the disease. Lastly, we discuss the role of the gut microbiota during respiratory viral infections and suggest that targeting gut dysbiosis may help to control the pathogenesis of COVID-19."	0
"32571875"	"PRL3 pseudophosphatase activity is necessary and sufficient to promote metastatic growth.Phosphatases of regenerating liver (PRLs) are markers of cancer and promote tumor growth. They have been implicated in a variety of biochemical pathways but the physiologically relevant target of phosphatase activity has eluded 20 years of investigation. Here, we show that PRL3 catalytic activity is not required in a mouse model of metastasis. PRL3 binds and inhibits CNNM4, a membrane protein associated with magnesium transport. Analysis of PRL3 mutants specifically defective in either CNNM-binding or phosphatase activity demonstrate that CNNM binding is necessary and sufficient to promote tumor metastasis. As PRLs do have phosphatase activity, they are in fact <i>pseudo</i>-pseudophosphatases. Phosphatase activity leads to formation of phosphocysteine, which blocks CNNM binding and may play a regulatory role. We show levels of PRL cysteine phosphorylation vary in response to culture conditions and in different tissues. Examination of related protein phosphatases shows the stability of phosphocysteine is a unique and evolutionarily conserved property of PRLs. The demonstration that PRL3 functions as a pseudophosphatase has important ramifications for the design of PRL inhibitors for cancer."	1
"30770238"	"Nucleosomes Stabilize ssRNA-dsDNA Triple Helices in Human Cells.Chromatin-associated non-coding RNAs modulate the epigenetic landscape and its associated gene expression program. The formation of triple helices is one mechanism of sequence-specific targeting of RNA to chromatin. With this study, we show an important role of the nucleosome and its relative positioning to the triplex targeting site (TTS) in stabilizing RNA-DNA triplexes in vitro and in vivo. Triplex stabilization depends on the histone H3 tail and the location of the TTS close to the nucleosomal DNA entry-exit site. Genome-wide analysis of TTS-nucleosome arrangements revealed a defined chromatin organization with an enrichment of arrangements that allow triplex formation at active regulatory sites and accessible chromatin. We further developed a method to monitor nucleosome-RNA triplexes in vivo (TRIP-seq), revealing RNA binding to TTS sites adjacent to nucleosomes. Our data strongly support an activating role for RNA triplex-nucleosome complexes, pinpointing triplex-mediated epigenetic regulation in vivo."	0
"31000437"	"Regulation of UCP1 and Mitochondrial Metabolism in Brown Adipose Tissue by Reversible Succinylation.Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is rich in mitochondria and plays important roles in energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and glucose homeostasis. We find that levels of mitochondrial protein succinylation and malonylation are high in BAT and subject to physiological and genetic regulation. BAT-specific deletion of Sirt5, a mitochondrial desuccinylase and demalonylase, results in dramatic increases in global protein succinylation and malonylation. Mass spectrometry-based quantification of succinylation reveals that Sirt5 regulates the key thermogenic protein in BAT, UCP1. Mutation of the two succinylated lysines in UCP1 to acyl-mimetic glutamine and glutamic acid significantly decreases its stability and activity. The reduced function of UCP1 and other proteins in Sirt5KO BAT results in impaired mitochondria respiration, defective mitophagy, and metabolic inflexibility. Thus, succinylation of UCP1 and other mitochondrial proteins plays an important role in BAT and in regulation of energy homeostasis."	1
"32023463"	"Oct4-Mediated Inhibition of Lsd1 Activity Promotes the Active and Primed State of Pluripotency Enhancers.An aberrant increase in pluripotency gene (PpG) expression due to enhancer reactivation could induce stemness and enhance the tumorigenicity of cancer stem cells. Silencing of PpG enhancers (PpGe) during embryonic stem cell differentiation involves Lsd1-mediated H3K4me1 demethylation and DNA methylation. Here, we observed retention of H3K4me1 and DNA hypomethylation at PpGe associated with a partial repression of PpGs in F9 embryonal carcinoma cells (ECCs) post-differentiation. H3K4me1 demethylation in F9 ECCs could not be rescued by Lsd1 overexpression. Given our observation that H3K4me1 demethylation is accompanied by strong Oct4 repression in P19 ECCs, we tested if Oct4 interaction with Lsd1 affects its catalytic activity. Our data show a dose-dependent inhibition of Lsd1 activity by Oct4 and retention of H3K4me1 at PpGe in Oct4-overexpressing P19 ECCs. These data suggest that Lsd1-Oct4 interaction in cancer stem cells could establish a ""primed"" enhancer state that is susceptible to reactivation, leading to aberrant PpG expression."	1
"32059760"	"A Conserved Kinase-Based Body-Temperature Sensor Globally Controls Alternative Splicing and Gene Expression.Homeothermic organisms maintain their core body temperature in a narrow, tightly controlled range. Whether and how subtle circadian oscillations or disease-associated changes in core body temperature are sensed and integrated in gene expression programs remain elusive. Furthermore, a thermo-sensor capable of sensing the small temperature differentials leading to temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) in poikilothermic reptiles has not been identified. Here, we show that the activity of CDC-like kinases (CLKs) is highly responsive to physiological temperature changes, which is conferred by structural rearrangements within the kinase activation segment. Lower body temperature activates CLKs resulting in strongly increased phosphorylation of SR proteins in vitro and in vivo. This globally controls temperature-dependent alternative splicing and gene expression, with wide implications in circadian, tissue-specific, and disease-associated settings. This temperature sensor is conserved across evolution and adapted to growth temperatures of diverse poikilotherms. The dynamic temperature range of reptilian CLK homologs suggests a role in TSD."	1
"31735641"	"Cancer-Derived Succinate Promotes Macrophage Polarization and Cancer Metastasis via Succinate Receptor.Macrophages form a major cell population in the tumor microenvironment. They can be activated and polarized into tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) by the tumor-derived soluble molecules to promote tumor progression and metastasis. Here, we used comparative metabolomics coupled with biochemical and animal studies to show that cancer cells release succinate into their microenvironment and activate succinate receptor (SUCNR1) signaling to polarize macrophages into TAM. Furthermore, the results from in vitro and in vivo studies revealed that succinate promotes not only cancer cell migration and invasion but also cancer metastasis. These effects are mediated by SUCNR1-triggered PI3K-hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) axis. Compared with healthy subjects and tumor-free lung tissues, serum succinate levels and lung cancer SUCNR1 expression were elevated in lung cancer patients, suggesting an important clinical relevance. Collectively, our findings indicate that the secreted tumor-derived succinate belongs to a novel class of cancer progression factors, controlling TAM polarization and promoting tumorigenic signaling."	1
"32565425"	"Unique features of the ketosynthase domain in a nonribosomal peptide synthetase-polyketide synthase hybrid enzyme, tenuazonic acid synthetase 1.Many microbial secondary metabolites are produced by multienzyme complexes comprising nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) and polyketide synthases (PKSs). The ketosynthase (KS) domains of polyketide synthase normally catalyze the decarboxylative Claisen condensation of acyl and malonyl blocks to extend the polyketide chain. However, the terminal KS domain in tenuazonic acid synthetase 1 (TAS1) from the fungus <i>Pyricularia oryzae</i> conducts substrate cyclization. Here, we report on the unique features of the KS domain in TAS1. We observed that this domain is monomeric, not dimeric as is typical for KSs. Analysis of a 1.68-Å resolution crystal structure suggests that the substrate cyclization is triggered via proton abstraction from the active methylene moiety in the substrate by a catalytic His-322 residue. Additionally, we show that TAS1 KS promiscuously accepts aminoacyl substrates and that this promiscuity can be increased by a single amino acid substitution in the substrate-binding pocket of the enzyme. These findings provide insight into a KS domain that accepts the amino acid-containing substrate in an NRPS-PKS hybrid enzyme and provide hints to the substrate cyclization mechanism performed by the KS domain in the biosynthesis of the mycotoxin tenuazonic acid."	0
"32049009"	"Transcriptional Programs Define Intratumoral Heterogeneity of Ewing Sarcoma at Single-Cell Resolution.EWSR1-FLI1, the chimeric oncogene specific for Ewing sarcoma (EwS), induces a cascade of signaling events leading to cell transformation. However, it remains elusive how genetically homogeneous EwS cells can drive the heterogeneity of transcriptional programs. Here, we combine independent component analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data from diverse cell types and model systems with time-resolved mapping of EWSR1-FLI1 binding sites and of open chromatin regions to characterize dynamic cellular processes associated with EWSR1-FLI1 activity. We thus define an exquisitely specific and direct enhancer-driven EWSR1-FLI1 program. In EwS tumors, cell proliferation and strong oxidative phosphorylation metabolism are associated with a well-defined range of EWSR1-FLI1 activity. In contrast, a subpopulation of cells from below and above the intermediary EWSR1-FLI1 activity is characterized by increased hypoxia. Overall, our study reveals sources of intratumoral heterogeneity within EwS tumors."	0
"31229404"	"An Oxygen-Dependent Interaction between FBXL5 and the CIA-Targeting Complex Regulates Iron Homeostasis.The iron-sensing protein FBXL5 is the substrate adaptor for a SKP1-CUL1-RBX1 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that regulates the degradation of iron regulatory proteins (IRPs). Here, we describe a mechanism of FBXL5 regulation involving its interaction with the cytosolic Fe-S cluster assembly (CIA) targeting complex composed of MMS19, FAM96B, and CIAO1. We demonstrate that the CIA-targeting complex promotes the ability of FBXL5 to degrade IRPs. In addition, the FBXL5-CIA-targeting complex interaction is regulated by oxygen (O<sub>2</sub>) tension displaying a robust association in 21% O<sub>2</sub> that is severely diminished in 1% O<sub>2</sub> and contributes to O<sub>2</sub>-dependent regulation of IRP degradation. Together, these data identify a novel oxygen-dependent signaling axis that links IRP-dependent iron homeostasis with the Fe-S cluster assembly machinery."	1
"32640241"	"Vav3 Mediates Pseudomonas aeruginosa Adhesion to the Cystic Fibrosis Airway Epithelium.Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa) represents the leading cause of airway infection in cystic fibrosis (CF). Early airways colonization can be explained by enhanced adhesion of Pa to the respiratory epithelium. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on fully differentiated primary cultures of airway epithelial cells from CF and non-CF donors predict that VAV3, β1 INTEGRIN, and FIBRONECTIN genes are significantly enriched in CF. Indeed, Vav3 is apically overexpressed in CF, associates with active β1 integrin luminally exposed, and increases fibronectin deposition. These luminal microdomains, rich in fibronectin and β1 integrin and regulated by Vav3, mediate the increased Pa adhesion to the CF epithelium. Interestingly, Vav3 inhibition normalizes the CF-dependent fibronectin and β1-integrin ectopic expression, improves the CF epithelial integrity, and prevents the enhanced Pa trapping to the CF epithelium. Through its capacity to promote a luminal complex with active β1 integrin and fibronectin that favors bacteria trapping, Vav3 may represent a new target in CF."	0
"32302542"	"Genomic Clustering Facilitates Nuclear Processing of Suboptimal Pri-miRNA Loci.Nuclear processing of most miRNAs is mediated by Microprocessor, comprised of RNase III enzyme Drosha and its cofactor DGCR8. Here, we uncover a hidden layer of Microprocessor regulation via studies of Dicer-independent mir-451, which is clustered with canonical mir-144. Although mir-451 is fully dependent on Drosha/DGCR8, its short stem and small terminal loop render it an intrinsically weak Microprocessor substrate. Thus, it must reside within a cluster for normal biogenesis, although the identity and orientation of its neighbor are flexible. We use DGCR8 tethering assays and operon structure-function assays to demonstrate that local recruitment and transfer of Microprocessor enhances suboptimal substrate processing. This principle applies more broadly since genomic analysis indicates suboptimal canonical miRNAs are enriched in operons, and we validate several of these experimentally. Proximity-based enhancement of suboptimal hairpin processing provides a rationale for genomic retention of certain miRNA operons and may explain preferential evolutionary emergence of miRNA operons."	0
"30849393"	"ADAR1: A New Target for Immuno-oncology Therapy.Three recent studies by Ishizuka et al. (2019), Liu et al. (2019), and Gannon et al. (2018) show that deleting RNA editing enzyme ADAR1 could induce higher cell lethality and render tumor cells more vulnerable to immunotherapy, pinpointing ADAR1 as a new immuno-oncology target."	0
"32460013"	"MKRN2 Physically Interacts with GLE1 to Regulate mRNA Export and Zebrafish Retinal Development.The mammalian mRNA nuclear export process is thought to terminate at the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex through ribonucleoprotein remodeling. We conduct a stringent affinity-purification mass-spectrometry-based screen of the physical interactions of human RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligases. The resulting protein-interaction network reveals interactions between the RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase MKRN2 and GLE1, a DEAD-box helicase activator implicated in mRNA export termination. We assess MKRN2 epistasis with GLE1 in a zebrafish model. Morpholino-mediated knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9-based knockout of MKRN2 partially rescue retinal developmental defects seen upon GLE1 depletion, consistent with a functional association between GLE1 and MKRN2. Using ribonomic approaches, we show that MKRN2 binds selectively to the 3' UTR of a diverse subset of mRNAs and that nuclear export of MKRN2-associated mRNAs is enhanced upon knockdown of MKRN2. Taken together, we suggest that MKRN2 interacts with GLE1 to selectively regulate mRNA nuclear export and retinal development."	1
"32792353"	"The Daam2-VHL-Nedd4 axis governs developmental and regenerative oligodendrocyte differentiation.Dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS) enables pathogenic accumulation of disease-driving proteins in neurons across a host of neurological disorders. However, whether and how the UPS contributes to oligodendrocyte dysfunction and repair after white matter injury (WMI) remains undefined. Here we show that the E3 ligase VHL interacts with Daam2 and their mutual antagonism regulates oligodendrocyte differentiation during development. Using proteomic analysis of the Daam2-VHL complex coupled with conditional genetic knockout mouse models, we further discovered that the E3 ubiquitin ligase <i>Nedd4</i> is required for developmental myelination through stabilization of VHL via K63-linked ubiquitination. Furthermore, studies in mouse demyelination models and white matter lesions from patients with multiple sclerosis corroborate the function of this pathway during remyelination after WMI. Overall, these studies provide evidence that a signaling axis involving key UPS components contributes to oligodendrocyte development and repair and reveal a new role for <i>Nedd4</i> in glial biology."	1
"32240602"	"Cdk1 Controls Global Epigenetic Landscape in Embryonic Stem Cells.The cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdk1) drives cell division. To uncover additional functions of Cdk1, we generated knockin mice expressing an analog-sensitive version of Cdk1 in place of wild-type Cdk1. In our study, we focused on embryonic stem cells (ESCs), because this cell type displays particularly high Cdk1 activity. We found that in ESCs, a large fraction of Cdk1 substrates is localized on chromatin. Cdk1 phosphorylates many proteins involved in epigenetic regulation, including writers and erasers of all major histone marks. Consistent with these findings, inhibition of Cdk1 altered histone-modification status of ESCs. High levels of Cdk1 in ESCs phosphorylate and partially inactivate Dot1l, the H3K79 methyltransferase responsible for placing activating marks on gene bodies. Decrease of Cdk1 activity during ESC differentiation de-represses Dot1l, thereby allowing coordinated expression of differentiation genes. These analyses indicate that Cdk1 functions to maintain the epigenetic identity of ESCs."	1
"32101747"	"Class IIa Histone Deacetylases Drive Toll-like Receptor-Inducible Glycolysis and Macrophage Inflammatory Responses via Pyruvate Kinase M2.Histone deacetylases (HDACs) drive innate immune cell-mediated inflammation. Here we identify class IIa HDACs as key molecular links between Toll-like receptor (TLR)-inducible aerobic glycolysis and macrophage inflammatory responses. A proteomic screen identified the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M isoform 2 (Pkm2) as a partner of proinflammatory Hdac7 in murine macrophages. Myeloid-specific Hdac7 overexpression in transgenic mice amplifies lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-inducible lactate and promotes a glycolysis-associated inflammatory signature. Conversely, pharmacological or genetic targeting of Hdac7 and other class IIa HDACs attenuates LPS-inducible glycolysis and accompanying inflammatory responses in macrophages. We show that an Hdac7-Pkm2 complex acts as an immunometabolism signaling hub, whereby Pkm2 deacetylation at lysine 433 licenses its proinflammatory functions. Disrupting this complex suppresses inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Class IIa HDACs are thus pivotal intermediates connecting TLR-inducible glycolysis to inflammation via Pkm2."	1
"31539507"	"Lysine Methylation Regulators Moonlighting outside the Epigenome.Landmark discoveries made nearly two decades ago identified known transcriptional regulators as histone lysine methyltransferases. Since then, the field of lysine methylation signaling has been dominated by studies of how this small chemical posttranslational modification regulates gene expression and other chromatin-based processes. However, recent advances in mass-spectrometry-based proteomics have revealed that histones are just a subset of the thousands of eukaryotic proteins marked by lysine methylation. As the writers, erasers, and readers of histone lysine methylation are emerging as a promising therapeutic target class for cancer and other diseases, a key challenge for the field is to define the full spectrum of activities for these proteins. Here we summarize recent discoveries implicating non-histone lysine methylation as a major regulator of diverse cellular processes. We further discuss recent technological innovations that are enabling the expanded study of lysine methylation signaling. Collectively, these findings are shaping our understanding of the fundamental mechanisms of non-histone protein regulation through this dynamic and multi-functional posttranslational modification."	0
"30981631"	"C9orf72 Poly(PR) Dipeptide Repeats Disturb Biomolecular Phase Separation and Disrupt Nucleolar Function.Repeat expansion in the C9orf72 gene is the most common cause of the neurodegenerative disorder amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (C9-ALS) and is linked to the unconventional translation of five dipeptide-repeat polypeptides (DPRs). The two enriched in arginine, poly(GR) and poly(PR), infiltrate liquid-like nucleoli, co-localize with the nucleolar protein nucleophosmin (NPM1), and alter the phase separation behavior of NPM1 in vitro. Here, we show that poly(PR) DPRs bind tightly to a long acidic tract within the intrinsically disordered region of NPM1, altering its phase separation with nucleolar partners to the extreme of forming large, soluble complexes that cause droplet dissolution in vitro. In cells, poly(PR) DPRs disperse NPM1 from nucleoli and entrap rRNA in static condensates in a DPR-length-dependent manner. We propose that R-rich DPR toxicity involves disrupting the role of phase separation by NPM1 in organizing ribosomal proteins and RNAs within the nucleolus."	0
"32579931"	"Single-Cell Profiling and SCOPE-Seq Reveal Lineage Dynamics of Adult Ventricular-Subventricular Zone Neurogenesis and NOTUM as a Key Regulator.In the adult ventricular-subventricular zone (V-SVZ), neural stem cells (NSCs) generate new olfactory bulb (OB) neurons and glia throughout life. To map adult neuronal lineage progression, we profiled >56,000 V-SVZ and OB cells by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Our analyses reveal the molecular diversity of OB neurons, including fate-mapped neurons, lineage progression dynamics, and an NSC intermediate enriched for Notum, which encodes a secreted WNT antagonist. SCOPE-seq technology, which links live-cell imaging with scRNA-seq, uncovers cell-size transitions during NSC differentiation and preferential NOTUM binding to proliferating neuronal precursors. Consistently, application of NOTUM protein in slice cultures and pharmacological inhibition of NOTUM in slice cultures and in vivo demonstrated that NOTUM negatively regulates V-SVZ proliferation. Timely, context-dependent neurogenesis demands adaptive signaling among neighboring progenitors. Our findings highlight a critical regulatory state during NSC activation marked by NOTUM, which attenuates WNT-stimulated proliferation in NSC progeny."	0
"31542297"	"Glutarylation of Histone H4 Lysine 91 Regulates Chromatin Dynamics.Histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) regulate chromatin structure and dynamics during various DNA-associated processes. Here, we report that lysine glutarylation (Kglu) occurs at 27 lysine residues on human core histones. Using semi-synthetic glutarylated histones, we show that an evolutionarily conserved Kglu at histone H4K91 destabilizes nucleosome in vitro. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the replacement of H4K91 by glutamate that mimics Kglu influences chromatin structure and thereby results in a global upregulation of transcription and defects in cell-cycle progression, DNA damage repair, and telomere silencing. In mammalian cells, H4K91glu is mainly enriched at promoter regions of highly expressed genes. A downregulation of H4K91glu is tightly associated with chromatin condensation during mitosis and in response to DNA damage. The cellular dynamics of H4K91glu is controlled by Sirt7 as a deglutarylase and KAT2A as a glutaryltransferase. This study designates a new histone mark (Kglu) as a new regulatory mechanism for chromatin dynamics."	1
"30898438"	"MDC1 Interacts with TOPBP1 to Maintain Chromosomal Stability during Mitosis.In mitosis, cells inactivate DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathways to preserve genome stability. However, some early signaling events still occur, such as recruitment of the scaffold protein MDC1 to phosphorylated histone H2AX at DSBs. Yet, it remains unclear whether these events are important for maintaining genome stability during mitosis. Here, we identify a highly conserved protein-interaction surface in MDC1 that is phosphorylated by CK2 and recognized by the DNA-damage response mediator protein TOPBP1. Disruption of MDC1-TOPBP1 binding causes a specific loss of TOPBP1 recruitment to DSBs in mitotic but not interphase cells, accompanied by mitotic radiosensitivity, increased micronuclei, and chromosomal instability. Mechanistically, we find that TOPBP1 forms filamentous structures capable of bridging MDC1 foci in mitosis, indicating that MDC1-TOPBP1 complexes tether DSBs until repair is reactivated in the following G1 phase. Thus, we reveal an important, hitherto-unnoticed cooperation between MDC1 and TOPBP1 in maintaining genome stability during cell division."	1
"32375034"	"Changes in Wnt-Dependent Neuronal Morphology Underlie the Anatomical Diversification of Neocortical Homologs in Amniotes.The six-layered neocortex is a shared characteristic of all mammals, but not of non-mammalian species, and its formation requires an inside-out pattern of neuronal migration. The extant reptilian dorsal cortex is thought to represent an ancestral form of the neocortex, although how the reptilian three-layered cortex is formed is poorly understood. Here, we show unique patterns of lamination and neuronal migration in the developing reptilian cortex. While the multipolar-to-bipolar transition of migrating neurons is essential for mammalian cortical development, the reptilian cortex lacks bipolar-shaped migrating neurons, resulting in an outside-in pattern of cortical development. Furthermore, dynamic regulation of Wnt signal strengths contributes to neuronal morphological changes, which is conserved across species. Our data preclude the idea that the six-layered mammalian neocortex emerged by simple addition to the reptilian dorsal cortex but suggest that the acquisition of a novel neuronal morphology based on conserved developmental programs contributed to neocortical evolution."	0
"31126740"	"SLC19A1 Is an Importer of the Immunotransmitter cGAMP.2'3'-cyclic-GMP-AMP (cGAMP) is a second messenger that activates the antiviral stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway. We recently identified a novel role for cGAMP as a soluble, extracellular immunotransmitter that is produced and secreted by cancer cells. Secreted cGAMP is then sensed by host cells, eliciting an antitumoral immune response. Due to the antitumoral effects of cGAMP, other CDN-based STING agonists are currently under investigation in clinical trials for metastatic solid tumors. However, it is unknown how cGAMP and other CDNs cross the cell membrane to activate intracellular STING. Using a genome-wide CRISPR screen, we identified SLC19A1 as the first known importer of cGAMP and other CDNs, including the investigational new drug 2'3'-bisphosphosphothioate-cyclic-di-AMP (2'3'-CDA<sup>S</sup>). These discoveries will provide insight into cGAMP's role as an immunotransmitter and aid in the development of more targeted CDN-based cancer therapeutics."	0
"30951651"	"Beyond the Four Bases: A Home Run for Synthetic Epigenetic Control?Park et al. (2019) create a synthetic self-propagating adenine methylation system for epigenetic control in human cells. Targeting adenine allows their modular system to act orthogonally to most epigenetic processes, thereby opening the door for novel methods of controlling gene expression."	0
"31733993"	"Lineage-Restricted Regulation of SCD and Fatty Acid Saturation by MITF Controls Melanoma Phenotypic Plasticity.Phenotypic and metabolic heterogeneity within tumors is a major barrier to effective cancer therapy. How metabolism is implicated in specific phenotypes and whether lineage-restricted mechanisms control key metabolic vulnerabilities remain poorly understood. In melanoma, downregulation of the lineage addiction oncogene microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) is a hallmark of the proliferative-to-invasive phenotype switch, although how MITF promotes proliferation and suppresses invasion is poorly defined. Here, we show that MITF is a lineage-restricted activator of the key lipogenic enzyme stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) and that SCD is required for MITF<sup>High</sup> melanoma cell proliferation. By contrast MITF<sup>Low</sup> cells are insensitive to SCD inhibition. Significantly, the MITF-SCD axis suppresses metastasis, inflammatory signaling, and an ATF4-mediated feedback loop that maintains de-differentiation. Our results reveal that MITF is a lineage-specific regulator of metabolic reprogramming, whereby fatty acid composition is a driver of melanoma phenotype switching, and highlight that cell phenotype dictates the response to drugs targeting lipid metabolism."	1
"32492428"	"Stage-Specific Requirement for Eomes in Mature NK Cell Homeostasis and Cytotoxicity.Natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) that mediate antiviral and antitumor responses and require the transcriptional regulator Eomesodermin (Eomes) for early development. However, the role of Eomes and its molecular program in mature NK cell biology is unclear. To address this, we develop a tamoxifen-inducible, type-1-ILC-specific (Ncr1-targeted) cre mouse and combine this with Eomes-floxed mice. Eomes deletion after normal NK cell ontogeny results in a rapid loss of NK cells (but not ILC1s), with a particularly profound effect on penultimately mature stage III NK cells. Mechanisms responsible for stage III reduction include increased apoptosis and impaired maturation from stage II precursors. Induced Eomes deletion also decreases NK cell cytotoxicity and abrogates in vivo rejection of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-class-I-deficient cells. However, other NK cell functional responses, and stage IV NK cells, are largely preserved. These data indicate that mature NK cells have distinct Eomes-dependent and -independent stages."	0
"32402289"	"Foxo3 Promotes the Differentiation and Function of Follicular Helper T Cells.Follicular helper T cells (Tfhs) are essential for germinal center (GC) B cell maturation and antibody development. However, the intrinsic mechanisms that regulate Tfh differentiation are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the frequencies of Tfhs and GC B cells, as well as interleukin-21 (IL-21) and anti-ovalbumin (OVA) antibodies, are markedly decreased in forkhead box O3 (Foxo3) knockout mice immunized with OVA. Using mixed bone marrow chimeras and lymphocyte-repopulated Rag1<sup>-/-</sup> mice proves that wild-type (WT), but not Foxo3-deficient T cells provoke GC B cell maturation and antibody production. Deficiency of Foxo3 inhibits inducible T cell co-stimulator (ICOS)-induced Tfh differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay results suggest that Foxo3 is able to bind to the IL-21 promoter and regulate IL-21 secretion. In conclusion, our study unveils a critical role of Foxo3 in the regulation of Tfh differentiation and IL-21 production. Modulating Foxo3 activity may be beneficial for enhancing or preventing antibody-mediated immune responses."	1
"31940486"	"Vesicle Shrinking and Enlargement Play Opposing Roles in the Release of Exocytotic Contents.For decades, two fusion modes were thought to control hormone and transmitter release essential to life; one facilitates release via fusion pore dilation and flattening (full collapse), and the other limits release by closing a narrow fusion pore (kiss-and-run). Using super-resolution stimulated emission depletion (STED) microscopy to visualize fusion modes of dense-core vesicles in neuroendocrine cells, we find that facilitation of release is mediated not by full collapse but by shrink fusion, in which the Ω-profile generated by vesicle fusion shrinks but maintains a large non-dilating pore. We discover that the physiological osmotic pressure of a cell squeezes, but does not dilate, the Ω-profile, which explains why shrink fusion prevails over full collapse. Instead of kiss-and-run, enlarge fusion, in which Ω-profiles grow while maintaining a narrow pore, slows down release. Shrink and enlarge fusion may thus account for diverse hormone and transmitter release kinetics observed in secretory cells, previously interpreted within the full-collapse/kiss-and-run framework."	0
"31940488"	"Parallel Channels for Motion Feature Extraction in the Pretectum and Tectum of Larval Zebrafish.Non-cortical visual areas in vertebrate brains extract relevant stimulus features, such as motion, object size, and location, to support diverse behavioral tasks. The optic tectum and pretectum, two primary visual areas in zebrafish, are involved in motion processing, and yet their differential neural representation of behaviorally relevant visual features is unclear. Here, we characterize receptive fields (RFs) of motion-sensitive neurons in the diencephalon and midbrain. We show that RFs of many pretectal neurons are large and sample the lower visual field, whereas RFs of tectal neurons are mostly small-size selective and sample the upper nasal visual field more densely. Furthermore, optomotor swimming can reliably be evoked by presenting forward motion in the lower temporal visual field alone, matching the lower visual field bias of the pretectum. Thus, tectum and pretectum extract different visual features from distinct regions of visual space, which is likely a result of their adaptations to hunting and optomotor behavior, respectively."	0
"32415271"	"Author Correction: Merkel cell polyomavirus activates LSD1-mediated blockade of non-canonical BAF to regulate transformation and tumorigenesis.An amendment to this paper has been published and can be accessed via a link at the top of the paper."	0
"32755591"	"Structural and Mechanistic Regulation of the Pro-degenerative NAD Hydrolase SARM1.The NADase SARM1 is a central switch in injury-activated axon degeneration, an early hallmark of many neurological diseases. Here, we present cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of autoinhibited (3.3 Å) and active SARM1 (6.8 Å) and provide mechanistic insight into the tight regulation of SARM1's function by the local metabolic environment. Although both states retain an octameric core, the defining feature of the autoinhibited state is a lock between the autoinhibitory Armadillo/HEAT motif (ARM) and catalytic Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domains, which traps SARM1 in an inactive state. Mutations that break this lock activate SARM1, resulting in catastrophic neuronal death. Notably, the mutants cannot be further activated by the endogenous activator nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), and active SARM1 is product inhibited by Nicotinamide (NAM), highlighting SARM1's functional dependence on key metabolites in the NAD salvage pathway. Our studies provide a molecular understanding of SARM1's transition from an autoinhibited to an injury-activated state and lay the foundation for future SARM1-based therapies to treat axonopathies."	0
"32616520"	"Identification of a localized nonsense-mediated decay pathway at the endoplasmic reticulum.Nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) is a translation-dependent RNA quality control mechanism that occurs in the cytoplasm. However, it is unknown how NMD regulates the stability of RNAs translated at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here, we identify a localized NMD pathway dedicated to ER-translated mRNAs. We previously identified NBAS, a component of the Syntaxin 18 complex involved in Golgi-to-ER trafficking, as a novel NMD factor. Furthermore, we show that NBAS fulfills an independent function in NMD. This ER-NMD pathway requires the interaction of NBAS with the core NMD factor UPF1, which is partially localized at the ER in the proximity of the translocon. NBAS and UPF1 coregulate the stability of ER-associated transcripts, in particular those associated with the cellular stress response. We propose a model where NBAS recruits UPF1 to the membrane of the ER and activates an ER-dedicated NMD pathway, thus providing an ER-protective function by ensuring quality control of ER-translated mRNAs."	1
"31420216"	"Estrogen-Related Hormones Induce Apoptosis by Stabilizing Schlafen-12 Protein Turnover.The mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis is controlled by the ratio of anti- and pro-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins. The molecular events underlying how a given physiological stimulus changes this ratio to trigger apoptosis remains unclear. We report here that human 17-β-estradiol (E2) and its related steroid hormones induce apoptosis by binding directly to phosphodiesterase 3A, which in turn recruits and stabilizes an otherwise fast-turnover protein Schlafen 12 (SLFN12). The elevated SLFN12 binds to ribosomes to exclude the recruitment of signal recognition particles (SRPs), thereby blocking the continuous protein translation occurring on the endoplasmic reticulum of E2-treated cells. These proteins include Bcl-2 and Mcl-1, whose ensuing decrease triggers apoptosis. The SLFN12 protein and an apoptosis activation marker were co-localized in syncytiotrophoblast of human placentas, where levels of estrogen-related hormones are high, and dynamic cell turnover by apoptosis is critical for successful implantation and placenta development."	1
"31902668"	"MicroRNAs Cause Accelerated Decay of Short-Tailed Target mRNAs.MicroRNAs (miRNAs) specify the recruitment of deadenylases to mRNA targets. Despite this recruitment, we find that miRNAs have almost no effect on steady-state poly(A)-tail lengths of their targets in mouse fibroblasts, which motivates the acquisition of pre-steady-state measurements of the effects of miRNAs on tail lengths, mRNA levels, and translational efficiencies. Effects on translational efficiency are minimal compared to effects on mRNA levels, even for newly transcribed target mRNAs. Effects on target mRNA levels accumulate as the mRNA population approaches steady state, whereas effects on tail lengths peak for recently transcribed target mRNAs and then subside. Computational modeling of this phenomenon reveals that miRNAs cause not only accelerated deadenylation of their targets but also accelerated decay of short-tailed target molecules. This unanticipated effect of miRNAs largely prevents short-tailed target mRNAs from accumulating despite accelerated target deadenylation. The net result is a nearly imperceptible change to the steady-state tail-length distribution of targeted mRNAs."	0
"31995728"	"AMPK, a Regulator of Metabolism and Autophagy, Is Activated by Lysosomal Damage via a Novel Galectin-Directed Ubiquitin Signal Transduction System.AMPK is a central regulator of metabolism and autophagy. Here we show how lysosomal damage activates AMPK. This occurs via a hitherto unrecognized signal transduction system whereby cytoplasmic sentinel lectins detect membrane damage leading to ubiquitination responses. Absence of Galectin 9 (Gal9) or loss of its capacity to recognize lumenal glycans exposed during lysosomal membrane damage abrogate such ubiquitination responses. Proteomic analyses with APEX2-Gal9 have revealed global changes within the Gal9 interactome during lysosomal damage. Gal9 association with lysosomal glycoproteins increases whereas interactions with a newly identified Gal9 partner, deubiquitinase USP9X, diminishes upon lysosomal injury. In response to damage, Gal9 displaces USP9X from complexes with TAK1 and promotes K63 ubiquitination of TAK1 thus activating AMPK on damaged lysosomes. This triggers autophagy and contributes to autophagic control of membrane-damaging microbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Thus, galectin and ubiquitin systems converge to activate AMPK and autophagy during endomembrane homeostasis."	1
"32485148"	"ERK2 Phosphorylates PFAS to Mediate Posttranslational Control of De Novo Purine Synthesis.The RAS-ERK/MAPK (RAS-extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway integrates growth-promoting signals to stimulate cell growth and proliferation, at least in part, through alterations in metabolic gene expression. However, examples of direct and rapid regulation of the metabolic pathways by the RAS-ERK pathway remain elusive. We find that physiological and oncogenic ERK signaling activation leads to acute metabolic flux stimulation through the de novo purine synthesis pathway, thereby increasing building block availability for RNA and DNA synthesis, which is required for cell growth and proliferation. We demonstrate that ERK2, but not ERK1, phosphorylates the purine synthesis enzyme PFAS (phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine synthase) at T619 in cells to stimulate de novo purine synthesis. The expression of nonphosphorylatable PFAS (T619A) decreases purine synthesis, RAS-dependent cancer cell-colony formation, and tumor growth. Thus, ERK2-mediated PFAS phosphorylation facilitates the increase in nucleic acid synthesis required for anabolic cell growth and proliferation."	1
"32209457"	"Cardiolipin's Remodeling Rules Revealed: The Role of the Cellular Lipidome.In this issue of Cell Reports, Oemer et al. (2020) define the acyl chain composition of cardiolipin and other lipid classes in murine tissues. They then employ artificial neural networks to predict mechanisms that govern cardiolipin tissue specificity, with implications for understanding cellular pathogenesis in human disease."	0
"30609391"	"The Cell-Death-Associated Polymer PAR Feeds Forward α-Synuclein Toxicity in Parkinson's Disease.Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by protein aggregates of α-synuclein in neurons. In a recent issue of Science, Kam et al. (2018) revealed a feedforward loop in which α-synuclein increases the levels of poly(adenosine 5'-diphosphate-ribose) (PAR) that in turn causes α-synuclein aggregates to be more toxic. This study advances our understanding of PD pathology."	0
"32492429"	"Inactivation of Rho GTPases by Burkholderia cenocepacia Induces a WASH-Mediated Actin Polymerization that Delays Phagosome Maturation.Burkholderia cenocepacia is an opportunistic bacterial pathogen that causes severe pulmonary infections in cystic fibrosis and chronic granulomatous disease patients. B. cenocepacia can survive inside infected macrophages within the B. cenocepacia-containing vacuole (BcCV) and to elicit a severe inflammatory response. By inactivating the host macrophage Rho GTPases, the bacterial effector TecA causes depolymerization of the cortical actin cytoskeleton. In this study, we find that B. cenocepacia induces the formation of large cytosolic F-actin clusters in infected macrophages. Cluster formation requires the nucleation-promoting factor WASH, the Arp2/3 complex, and TecA. Inactivation of Rho GTPases by bacterial toxins is necessary and sufficient to induce the formation of the cytosolic actin clusters. By hijacking WASH and Arp2/3 activity, B. cenocepacia disrupts interactions with the endolysosomal system, thereby delaying the maturation of the BcCV."	0
"32101751"	"TIFAB Regulates USP15-Mediated p53 Signaling during Stressed and Malignant Hematopoiesis.TRAF-interacting protein with a forkhead-associated domain B (TIFAB) is implicated in myeloid malignancies with deletion of chromosome 5q. Employing a combination of proteomic and genetic approaches, we find that TIFAB regulates ubiquitin-specific peptidase 15 (USP15) ubiquitin hydrolase activity. Expression of TIFAB in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) permits USP15 signaling to substrates, including MDM2 and KEAP1, and mitigates p53 expression. Consequently, TIFAB-deficient HSPCs exhibit compromised USP15 signaling and are sensitized to hematopoietic stress by derepression of p53. In MLL-AF9 leukemia, deletion of TIFAB increases p53 signaling and correspondingly decreases leukemic cell function and development of leukemia. Restoring USP15 expression partially rescues the function of TIFAB-deficient MLL-AF9 cells. Conversely, elevated TIFAB represses p53, increases leukemic progenitor function, and correlates with MLL gene expression programs in leukemia patients. Our studies uncover a function of TIFAB as an effector of USP15 activity and rheostat of p53 signaling in stressed and malignant HSPCs."	1
"30792173"	"Structural Snapshots of 26S Proteasome Reveal Tetraubiquitin-Induced Conformations.The 26S proteasome is the ATP-dependent protease responsible for regulating the proteome of eukaryotic cells through degradation of mainly ubiquitin-tagged substrates. In order to understand how proteasome responds to ubiquitin signal, we resolved an ensemble of cryo-EM structures of proteasome in the presence of K48-Ub<sub>4</sub>, with three of them resolved at near-atomic resolution. We identified a conformation with stabilized ubiquitin receptors and a previously unreported orientation of the lid, assigned as a Ub-accepted state C1-b. We determined another structure C3-b with localized K48-Ub<sub>4</sub> to the toroid region of Rpn1, assigned as a substrate-processing state. Our structures indicate that tetraUb induced conformational changes in proteasome could initiate substrate degradation. We also propose a CP gate-opening mechanism involving the propagation of the motion of the lid to the gate through the Rpn6-α2 interaction. Our results enabled us to put forward a model of a functional cycle for proteasomes induced by tetraUb and nucleotide."	0
"32354837"	"4E-T-bound mRNAs are stored in a silenced and deadenylated form.Human 4E-T is an eIF4E-binding protein (4E-BP) present in processing (P)-bodies that represses translation and regulates decay of mRNAs destabilized by AU-rich elements and microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we show that upon mRNA binding 4E-T represses translation and promotes deadenylation via the recruitment of the CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex. The interaction with CCR4-NOT is mediated by previously uncharacterized sites in the middle region of 4E-T. Importantly, mRNA decapping and decay are inhibited by 4E-T and the deadenylated target is stored in a repressed form. Inhibition of mRNA decapping requires the interaction of 4E-T with the cap-binding proteins eIF4E/4EHP. We further show that regulation of decapping by 4E-T participates in mRNA repression by the miRNA effector protein TNRC6B and that 4E-T overexpression interferes with tristetraprolin (TTP)- and NOT1-mediated mRNA decay. Thus, we postulate that 4E-T modulates 5'-to-3' decay by swapping the fate of a deadenylated mRNA from complete degradation to storage. Our results provide insight into the mechanism of mRNA storage that controls localized translation and mRNA stability in P-bodies."	1
"32209476"	"OXR1A, a Coactivator of PRMT5 Regulating Histone Arginine Methylation.Oxidation resistance gene 1 (OXR1) protects cells against oxidative stress. We find that male mice with brain-specific isoform A knockout (Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup>) develop fatty liver. RNA sequencing of male Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> liver indicates decreased growth hormone (GH) signaling, which is known to affect liver metabolism. Indeed, Gh expression is reduced in male mice Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary gland and in rat Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> pituitary adenoma cell-line GH3. Oxr1A<sup>-/-</sup> male mice show reduced fasting-blood GH levels. Pull-down and proximity ligation assays reveal that OXR1A is associated with arginine methyl transferase PRMT5. OXR1A-depleted GH3 cells show reduced symmetrical dimethylation of histone H3 arginine 2 (H3R2me2s), a product of PRMT5 catalyzed methylation, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) of H3R2me2s shows reduced Gh promoter enrichment. Finally, we demonstrate with purified proteins that OXR1A stimulates PRMT5/MEP50-catalyzed H3R2me2s. Our data suggest that OXR1A is a coactivator of PRMT5, regulating histone arginine methylation and thereby GH production within the pituitary gland."	1
"30901561"	"Context Matters: RNF168 Connects with PALB2 to Rewire Homologous Recombination in BRCA1 Haploinsufficiency.In this issue of Molecular Cell, Zong et al. (2019) reveal RNF168-driven chromatin ubiquitylation as a key back-up mechanism to sustain homologous recombination (HR) independently of BRCA1. These findings provide new clues to carcinogenesis and cancer therapy in BRCA1 heterozygous mutation carriers."	0
"31628042"	"PTPS Facilitates Compartmentalized LTBP1 S-Nitrosylation and Promotes Tumor Growth under Hypoxia.GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH), 6-pyruvoyltetrahydropterin synthase (PTPS), and sepiapterin reductase (SR) are sequentially responsible for de novo synthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), a known co-factor for nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The implication of BH4-biosynthesis process in tumorigenesis remains to be investigated. Here, we show that PTPS, which is highly expressed in early-stage colorectal cancer, is phosphorylated at Thr 58 by AMPK under hypoxia; this phosphorylation promotes PTPS binding to LTBP1 and subsequently drives iNOS-mediated LTBP1 S-nitrosylation through proximal-coupling BH4 production within the PTPS/iNOS/LTBP1 complex. In turn, LTBP1 S-nitrosylation results in proteasome-dependent LTBP1 protein degradation, revealing an inverse relationship between PTPS pT58 and LTBP1 stability. Physiologically, the repressive effect of PTPS on LTBP1 leads to impaired transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) secretion and thereby maintains tumor cell growth under hypoxia. Our findings illustrate a molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of LTBP1-TGF-β signaling by the BH4-biosynthesis pathway and highlight the specific requirement of PTPS for tumor growth."	1
"32726637"	"L ARP7 Is a BRCA1 Ubiquitinase Substrate and Regulates Genome Stability and Tumorigenesis.Attenuated DNA repair leads to genomic instability and tumorigenesis. BRCA1/BARD1 are the best-known tumor suppressors that promote homology recombination (HR) and arrest cell cycle. However, it remains ambiguous whether and how their E3 ligase activity regulates HR. Here, we demonstrate that upon genotoxic stress, BRCA1 together with BARD1 catalyzes the K48 polyubiquitination on LARP7, a 7SK RNA binding protein known to control RNAPII pausing, and thereby degrades it through the 26S ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Depleting LARP7 suppresses the expression of CDK1 complex, arrests the cell at the G2/M DNA damage checkpoint, and reduces BRCA2 phosphorylation, which thereby facilitates RAD51 recruitment to damaged DNA to enhance HR. Importantly, LARP7 depletion observed in breast cancer patients leads to chemoradiotherapy resistance both in vitro and in vivo. Altogether, this study unveils a mechanism by which BRCA1/BARD1 control HR and cell cycle, and highlights LARP7 as a potential target for cancer prevention and therapy."	1
"32668216"	"Remdesivir Inhibits SARS-CoV-2 in Human Lung Cells and Chimeric SARS-CoV Expressing the SARS-CoV-2 RNA Polymerase in Mice.Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causative agent of the novel viral disease COVID-19. With no approved therapies, this pandemic illustrates the urgent need for broad-spectrum antiviral countermeasures against SARS-CoV-2 and future emerging CoVs. We report that remdesivir (RDV) potently inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication in human lung cells and primary human airway epithelial cultures (EC<sub>50</sub> = 0.01 μM). Weaker activity is observed in Vero E6 cells (EC<sub>50</sub> = 1.65 μM) because of their low capacity to metabolize RDV. To rapidly evaluate in vivo efficacy, we engineered a chimeric SARS-CoV encoding the viral target of RDV, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of SARS-CoV-2. In mice infected with the chimeric virus, therapeutic RDV administration diminishes lung viral load and improves pulmonary function compared with vehicle-treated animals. These data demonstrate that RDV is potently active against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro and in vivo, supporting its further clinical testing for treatment of COVID-19."	0
"32049023"	"SENP3 Suppresses Osteoclastogenesis by De-conjugating SUMO2/3 from IRF8 in Bone Marrow-Derived Monocytes.Bone metabolism depends on the balance between osteoclast-driven bone resorption and osteoblast-mediated bone formation. Diseases like osteoporosis are characterized by increased bone destruction due to partially enhanced osteoclastogenesis. Here, we report that the post-translational SUMO modification is critical for regulating osteoclastogenesis. The expression of the SUMO-specific protease SENP3 is downregulated in osteoclast precursors during osteoclast differentiation. Mice with SENP3 deficiency in bone marrow-derived monocytes (BMDMs) exhibit more severe bone loss due to over-activation of osteoclasts after ovariectomy. Deleting SENP3 in BMDMs promotes osteoclast differentiation. Mechanistically, loss of SENP3 increases interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) SUMO3 modification at the K310 amino acid site, which upregulates expression of the nuclear factor of activated T cell c1 (NFATc1) and osteoclastogenesis. In summary, IRF8 de-SUMO modification mediated by SENP3 suppresses osteoclast differentiation and suggests strategies to treat bone loss diseases."	1
"32023461"	"Wnt3a Stimulation Promotes Primary Ciliogenesis through β-Catenin Phosphorylation-Induced Reorganization of Centriolar Satellites.Primary cilium is an antenna-like microtubule-based cellular sensing structure. Abnormal regulation of the dynamic assembly and disassembly cycle of primary cilia is closely related to ciliopathy and cancer. The Wnt signaling pathway plays a major role in embryonic development and tissue homeostasis, and defects in Wnt signaling are associated with a variety of human diseases, including cancer. In this study, we provide direct evidence of Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis, which includes a continuous pathway showing that the stimulation of Wnt3a, a canonical Wnt ligand, promotes the generation of β-catenin p-S47 epitope by CK1δ, and these events lead to the reorganization of centriolar satellites resulting in primary ciliogenesis. We have also confirmed the application of our findings in MCF-7/ADR cells, a multidrug-resistant tumor cell model. Thus, our data provide a Wnt3a-induced primary ciliogenesis pathway and may provide a clue on how to overcome multidrug resistance in cancer treatment."	1
"32348753"	"Rheb1-Independent Activation of mTORC1 in Mammary Tumors Occurs through Activating Mutations in mTOR.Mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) is a master modulator of cellular growth, and its aberrant regulation is recurrently documented within breast cancer. While the small GTPase Rheb1 is the canonical activator of mTORC1, Rheb1-independent mechanisms of mTORC1 activation have also been reported but have not been fully understood. Employing multiple transgenic mouse models of breast cancer, we report that ablation of Rheb1 significantly impedes mammary tumorigenesis. In the absence of Rheb1, a block in tumor initiation can be overcome by multiple independent mutations in Mtor to allow Rheb1-independent reactivation of mTORC1. We further demonstrate that the mTOR kinase is indispensable for tumor initiation as the genetic ablation of mTOR abolishes mammary tumorigenesis. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that mTORC1 activation is indispensable for mammary tumor initiation and that tumors acquire alternative mechanisms of mTORC1 activation."	0
"32220646"	"Cryo-EM Structures of Human Drosha and DGCR8 in Complex with Primary MicroRNA.Metazoan microRNAs require specific maturation steps initiated by Microprocessor, comprising Drosha and DGCR8. Lack of structural information for the assembled complex has hindered an understanding of how Microprocessor recognizes primary microRNA transcripts (pri-miRNAs). Here we present a cryoelectron microscopy structure of human Microprocessor with a pri-miRNA docked in the active site, poised for cleavage. The basal junction is recognized by a four-way intramolecular junction in Drosha, triggered by the Belt and Wedge regions that clamp over the ssRNA. The belt is important for efficiency and accuracy of pri-miRNA processing. Two dsRBDs form a molecular ruler to measure the stem length between the two dsRNA-ssRNA junctions. The specific organization of the dsRBDs near the apical junction is independent of Drosha core domains, as observed in a second structure in the partially docked state. Collectively, we derive a molecular model to explain how Microprocessor recognizes a pri-miRNA and accurately identifies the cleavage site."	0
"32203415"	"Copper is an essential regulator of the autophagic kinases ULK1/2 to drive lung adenocarcinoma.Although the transition metal copper (Cu) is an essential nutrient that is conventionally viewed as a static cofactor within enzyme active sites, a non-traditional role for Cu as a modulator of kinase signalling is emerging. Here, we found that Cu is required for the activity of the autophagic kinases ULK1 and ULK2 (ULK1/2) through a direct Cu-ULK1/2 interaction. Genetic loss of the Cu transporter Ctr1 or mutations in ULK1 that disrupt the binding of Cu reduced ULK1/2-dependent signalling and the formation of autophagosome complexes. Increased levels of intracellular Cu are associated with starvation-induced autophagy and are sufficient to enhance ULK1 kinase activity and, in turn, autophagic flux. The growth and survival of lung tumours driven by KRAS<sup>G12D</sup> is diminished in the absence of Ctr1, is dependent on ULK1 Cu binding and is associated with reduced levels of autophagy and signalling. These findings suggest a molecular basis for exploiting Cu-chelation therapy to prevent autophagy signalling to limit proliferation and improve patient survival in cancer."	1
"32492424"	"Critical Roles of Translation Initiation and RNA Uridylation in Endogenous Retroviral Expression and Neural Differentiation in Pluripotent Stem Cells.Previous studies have suggested that the loss of the translation initiation factor eIF4G1 homolog NAT1 induces excessive self-renewability of naive pluripotent stem cells (PSCs); yet the role of NAT1 in the self-renewal and differentiation of primed PSCs is still unclear. Here, we generate a conditional knockout of NAT1 in primed PSCs and use the cells for the functional analyses of NAT1. Our results show that NAT1 is required for the self-renewal and neural differentiation of primed PSCs. In contrast, NAT1 deficiency in naive pluripotency attenuates the differentiation to all cell types. We also find that NAT1 is involved in efficient protein expression of an RNA uridyltransferase, TUT7. TUT7 is involved in the neural differentiation of primed PSCs via the regulation of human endogenous retrovirus accumulation. These data demonstrate the essential roles of NAT1 and TUT7 in the precise transition of stem cell fate."	1
"32209475"	"Histone H4K20 Demethylation by Two hHR23 Proteins.Histone methyl groups can be removed by demethylases. Although LSD1 and JmjC domain-containing proteins have been identified as histone demethylases, enzymes for many histone methylation states or sites are still unknown. Here, we perform a screening of a cDNA library containing 2,500 nuclear proteins and identify hHR23A as a histone H4K20 demethylase. Overexpression of hHR23A reduces the levels of H4K20me1/2/3 in cells. In vitro, hHR23A specifically demethylates H4K20me1/2/3 and generates formaldehyde. The enzymatic activity requires Fe(II) and α-ketoglutarate as cofactors and the UBA domains of hHR23A. hHR23B, a protein homologous to hHR23A, also demethylates H4K20me1/2/3 in vitro and in vivo. We further demonstrate that hHR23A/B activate the transcription of coding genes by demethylating H4K20me1 and the transcription of repetitive elements by demethylating H4K20me3. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analyses demonstrate that an HxxxE motif in the UBA1 domain is crucial for iron binding and demethylase activity. Thus, we identify two hHR23 proteins as histone demethylases."	1
"31606273"	"Distinct Binding Preferences between Ras and Raf Family Members and the Impact on Oncogenic Ras Signaling.The Ras GTPases are frequently mutated in human cancer, and, although the Raf kinases are essential effectors of Ras signaling, the tumorigenic properties of specific Ras-Raf complexes are not well characterized. Here, we examine the ability of individual Ras and Raf proteins to interact in live cells using bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) technology. We find that C-Raf binds all mutant Ras proteins with high affinity, whereas B-Raf exhibits a striking preference for mutant K-Ras. This selectivity is mediated by the acidic, N-terminal segment of B-Raf and requires the K-Ras polybasic region for high-affinity binding. In addition, we find that C-Raf is critical for mutant H-Ras-driven signaling and that events stabilizing B-Raf/C-Raf dimerization, such as Raf inhibitor treatment or certain B-Raf mutations, can allow mutant H-Ras to engage B-Raf with increased affinity to promote tumorigenesis, thus revealing a previously unappreciated role for C-Raf in potentiating B-Raf function."	1
"32243828"	"Chromatin Hyperacetylation Impacts Chromosome Folding by Forming a Nuclear Subcompartment.Delineating how chromosomes fold at length scales beyond one megabase remains obscure relative to smaller-scale folding into TADs, loops, and nucleosomes. We find that rather than simply unfolding chromatin, histone hyperacetylation results in interactions between distant genomic loci separated by tens to hundreds of megabases, even in the absence of transcription. These hyperacetylated ""megadomains"" are formed by the BRD4-NUT fusion oncoprotein, interact both within and between chromosomes, and form a specific nuclear subcompartment that has elevated gene activity with respect to other subcompartments. Pharmacological degradation of BRD4-NUT results in collapse of megadomains and attenuation of the interactions between them. In contrast, these interactions persist and contacts between newly acetylated regions are formed after inhibiting RNA polymerase II initiation. Our structure-function approach thus reveals that broad chromatin domains of identical biochemical composition, independent of transcription, form nuclear subcompartments, and also indicates the potential of altering chromosome structure for treating human disease."	0
"32820039"	"In vivo CRISPR screening for phenotypic targets of the <i>mir-35-42</i> family in <i>C. elegans</i>.Identifying miRNA target genes is difficult, and delineating which targets are the most biologically important is even more difficult. We devised a novel strategy to test the phenotypic impact of individual microRNA-target interactions by disrupting each predicted miRNA-binding site by CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing in <i>C. elegans</i> We developed a multiplexed negative selection screening approach in which edited loci are deep sequenced, and candidate sites are prioritized based on apparent selection pressure against mutations that disrupt miRNA binding. Importantly, our screen was conducted in vivo on mutant animals, allowing us to interrogate organism-level phenotypes. We used this approach to screen for phenotypic targets of the essential <i>mir-35-42</i> family. By generating 1130 novel 3'UTR alleles across all predicted targets, we identified <i>egl-1</i> as a phenotypic target whose derepression partially phenocopies the <i>mir-35-42</i> mutant phenotype by inducing embryonic lethality and low fecundity. These phenotypes can be rescued by compensatory CRISPR mutations that retarget <i>mir-35</i> to the mutant <i>egl-1</i> 3'UTR. This study demonstrates that the application of in vivo whole organismal CRISPR screening has great potential to accelerate the discovery of phenotypic negative regulatory elements in the noncoding genome."	0
"32697998"	"A Synthetic Likelihood Solution to the Silent Synapse Estimation Problem.Functional features of synaptic populations are typically inferred from random electrophysiological sampling of small subsets of synapses. Are these samples unbiased? Here, we develop a biophysically constrained statistical framework to address this question and apply it to assess the performance of a widely used method based on a failure-rate analysis to quantify the occurrence of silent (AMPAR-lacking) synapses. We simulate this method in silico and find that it is characterized by strong and systematic biases, poor reliability, and weak statistical power. Key conclusions are validated by whole-cell recordings from hippocampal neurons. To address these shortcomings, we develop a simulator of the experimental protocol and use it to compute a synthetic likelihood. By maximizing the likelihood, we infer silent synapse fraction with no bias, low variance, and superior statistical power over alternatives. Together, this generalizable approach highlights how a simulator of experimental methodologies can substantially improve the estimation of physiological properties."	0
"32187545"	"Nucleus Accumbens Cell Type- and Input-Specific Suppression of Unproductive Reward Seeking.The nucleus accumbens (NAc) contributes to behavioral inhibition and compulsions, but circuit mechanisms are unclear. Recent evidence suggests that amygdala and thalamic inputs exert opposing control over behavior, much like direct and indirect pathway output neurons. Accordingly, opponent processes between these NAc inputs or cell types may underlie efficient reward seeking. We assess the contributions of these circuit elements to mouse operant behavior during recurring conditions when reward is and is not available. Although direct pathway stimulation is rewarding and indirect pathway stimulation aversive, the activity of both cell types is elevated during periods of behavioral suppression, and the inhibition of either cell-type selectively increases unproductive reward seeking. Amygdala and thalamic inputs are also necessary for behavioral suppression, even though they both support self-stimulation and innervate different NAc subregions. These data suggest that efficient reward seeking relies on complementary activity across NAc cell types and inputs rather than opponent processes between them."	0
"32130893"	"Gastrointestinal Neurons Expressing HCN4 Regulate Retrograde Peristalsis.Peristalsis is indispensable for physiological function of the gut. The enteric nervous system (ENS) plays an important role in regulating peristalsis. While the neural network regulating anterograde peristalsis, which migrates from the oral end to the anal end, is characterized to some extent, retrograde peristalsis remains unresolved with regards to its neural regulation. Using forward genetics in zebrafish, we reveal that a population of neurons expressing a hyperpolarization-activated nucleotide-gated channel HCN4 specifically regulates retrograde peristalsis. When HCN4 channels are blocked by an HCN channel inhibitor or morpholinos blocking the protein expression, retrograde peristalsis is specifically attenuated. Conversely, when HCN4(+) neurons expressing channelrhodopsin are activated by illumination, retrograde peristalsis is enhanced while anterograde peristalsis remains unchanged. We propose that HCN4(+) neurons in the ENS forward activating signals toward the oral end and simultaneously stimulate local circuits regulating the circular muscle."	0
"32187551"	"Mesenchymal Stem and Stromal Cells Harness Macrophage-Derived Amphiregulin to Maintain Tissue Homeostasis.The cross-talk between mesenchymal stem and stromal cells (MSCs) and macrophages is critical for the restoration of tissue homeostasis after injury. Here, we demonstrate a pathway through which MSCs instruct macrophages to resolve inflammation and preserve tissue-specific stem cells, leading to homeostasis in mice with autoimmune uveoretinitis and sterile-injury-induced corneal epithelial stem cell deficiency. Distinct from their conventional role in macrophage reprogramming to anti-inflammatory phenotype by a PGE2-dependent mechanism, MSCs enhance the phagocytic activity of macrophages, which partly depends on the uptake of MSC mitochondria-containing extracellular vesicles. The MSC-primed macrophages increase the secretion of amphiregulin (AREG) in a phagocytosis-dependent manner. AREG is essential for MSC-primed macrophages to suppress immune responses through regulatory T (Treg) cells and to protect corneal epithelial stem cells via apoptosis inhibition and proliferation promotion. Hence, the data reveal that MSCs harness macrophage-derived AREG to maintain tissue homeostasis after injury and provide a therapeutic target in immune-mediated disease and regenerative medicine."	0
"30581146"	"Role of Mitochondria in Ferroptosis.Ferroptosis is a regulated necrosis process driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation. Although ferroptosis and cellular metabolism interplay with one another, whether mitochondria are involved in ferroptosis is under debate. Here, we demonstrate that mitochondria play a crucial role in cysteine-deprivation-induced ferroptosis but not in that induced by inhibiting glutathione peroxidase-4 (GPX4), the most downstream component of the ferroptosis pathway. Mechanistically, cysteine deprivation leads to mitochondrial membrane potential hyperpolarization and lipid peroxide accumulation. Inhibition of mitochondrial TCA cycle or electron transfer chain (ETC) mitigated mitochondrial membrane potential hyperpolarization, lipid peroxide accumulation, and ferroptosis. Blockage of glutaminolysis had the same inhibitory effect, which was counteracted by supplying downstream TCA cycle intermediates. Importantly, loss of function of fumarate hydratase, a tumor suppressor and TCA cycle component, confers resistance to cysteine-deprivation-induced ferroptosis. Collectively, this work demonstrates the crucial role of mitochondria in cysteine-deprivation-induced ferroptosis and implicates ferroptosis in tumor suppression."	0
"32553161"	"Brain Circuit of Claustrophobia-like Behavior in Mice Identified by Upstream Tracing of Sighing.Emotions are distinct patterns of behavioral and physiological responses triggered by stimuli that induce different brain states. Elucidating the circuits is difficult because of challenges in interrogating emotional brain states and their complex outputs. Here, we leverage the recent discovery in mice of a neural circuit for sighing, a simple, quantifiable output of various emotions. We show that mouse confinement triggers sighing, and this ""claustrophobic"" sighing, but not accompanying tachypnea, requires the same medullary neuromedin B (Nmb)-expressing neurons as physiological sighing. Retrograde tracing from the Nmb neurons identified 12 forebrain centers providing presynaptic input, including hypocretin (Hcrt)-expressing lateral hypothalamic neurons. Confinement activates Hcrt neurons, and optogenetic activation induces sighing and tachypnea whereas pharmacologic inhibition suppresses both responses. The effect on sighing is mediated by HCRT directly on Nmbneurons. We propose that this HCRT-NMB neuropeptide relay circuit mediates claustrophobic sighing and that activated Hcrt neurons are a claustrophobia brain state that directly controls claustrophobic outputs."	0
"32209460"	"TLR4-Mediated Pathway Triggers Interferon-Independent G0 Arrest and Antiviral SAMHD1 Activity in Macrophages.Macrophages exist predominantly in two distinct states, G0 and a G1-like state that is accompanied by phosphorylation of SAMHD1 at T592. Here, we demonstrate that Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activation can potently induce G0 arrest and SAMHD1 antiretroviral activity by an interferon (IFN)-independent pathway. This pathway requires TLR4 engagement with TRIF, but not involvement of TBK1 or IRF3. Exclusive Myd88 activators are unable to trigger G0 arrest or SAMHD1 dephosphorylation, demonstrating this arrest is also Myd88/nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) independent. The G0 arrest is accompanied by p21 upregulation and CDK1 depletion, consistent with the observed SAMHD1 dephosphorylation at T592. Furthermore, we show by SAMHD1 knockdown that the TLR4-activated pathway potently blocks HIV-1 infection in macrophages specifically via SAMHD1. Together, these data demonstrate that macrophages can mobilize an intrinsic cell arrest and anti-viral state by activating TLR4 prior to IFN secretion, thereby highlighting the importance of cell-cycle regulation as a response to pathogen-associated danger signals in macrophages."	0
"30765194"	"The C-Terminal Domain of RNA Polymerase II Is a Multivalent Targeting Sequence that Supports Drosophila Development with Only Consensus Heptads.The C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) is composed of repeats of the consensus YSPTSPS and is an essential binding scaffold for transcription-associated factors. Metazoan CTDs have well-conserved lengths and sequence compositions arising from the evolution of divergent motifs, features thought to be essential for development. On the contrary, we show that a truncated CTD composed solely of YSPTSPS repeats supports Drosophila viability but that a CTD with enough YSPTSPS repeats to match the length of the wild-type Drosophila CTD is defective. Furthermore, a fluorescently tagged CTD lacking the rest of Pol II dynamically enters transcription compartments, indicating that the CTD functions as a signal sequence. However, CTDs with too many YSPTSPS repeats are more prone to localize to static nuclear foci separate from the chromosomes. We propose that the sequence complexity of the CTD offsets aberrant behavior caused by excessive repetitive sequences without compromising its targeting function."	0
"32460029"	"Apical Restriction of the Planar Cell Polarity Component VANGL in Pancreatic Ducts Is Required to Maintain Epithelial Integrity.Cell polarity is essential for the architecture and function of numerous epithelial tissues. Here, we show that apical restriction of planar cell polarity (PCP) components is necessary for the maintenance of epithelial integrity. Using the mammalian pancreas as a model, we find that components of the core PCP pathway, such as the transmembrane protein Van Gogh-like (VANGL), become apically restricted over a period of several days. Expansion of VANGL localization to the basolateral membranes of progenitors leads to their death and disruption of the epithelial integrity. VANGL basolateral expansion does not affect apico-basal polarity but acts in the cells where Vangl is mislocalized by reducing Dishevelled and its downstream target ROCK. This reduction in ROCK activity culminates in progenitor cell egression, death, and eventually pancreatic hypoplasia. Thus, precise spatiotemporal modulation of VANGL-dependent PCP signaling is crucial for proper pancreatic morphogenesis."	0
"31053472"	"Ca<sup>2+</sup>-Stimulated AMPK-Dependent Phosphorylation of Exo1 Protects Stressed Replication Forks from Aberrant Resection.Abnormal processing of stressed replication forks by nucleases can cause fork collapse, genomic instability, and cell death. Despite its importance, it is poorly understood how the cell properly controls nucleases to prevent detrimental fork processing. Here, we report a signaling pathway that controls the activity of exonuclease Exo1 to prevent aberrant fork resection during replication stress. Our results indicate that replication stress elevates intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> concentration ([Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub>), leading to activation of CaMKK2 and the downstream kinase 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Following activation, AMPK directly phosphorylates Exo1 at serine 746 to promote 14-3-3 binding and inhibit Exo1 recruitment to stressed replication forks, thereby avoiding unscheduled fork resection. Disruption of this signaling pathway results in excessive ssDNA, chromosomal instability, and hypersensitivity to replication stress inducers. These findings reveal a link between [Ca<sup>2+</sup>]<sub>i</sub> and the replication stress response as well as a function of the Ca<sup>2+</sup>-CaMKK2-AMPK signaling axis in safeguarding fork structure to maintain genome stability."	1
"32268103"	"Shank2 Binds to aPKC and Controls Tight Junction Formation with Rap1 Signaling during Establishment of Epithelial Cell Polarity.Epithelial cells establish apicobasal polarity by forming tight junctions (TJs) at the apical-lateral boundary, which play fundamental roles in physiological functions. An evolutionarily conserved atypical protein kinase C (aPKC)-partitioning defective (PAR) complex functions as a platform for TJ assembly during cell polarity establishment. However, how this complex converts the spatial cues into a subsequent active unit is unclear. Here, we identify an epithelial isoform of Shank2 as a mediator of the aPKC-PAR complex. Shank2 binds to and colocalizes with aPKC at apical junctional regions of polarized epithelial cells. Shank2 knockdown results in defects in TJ formation. Mechanistically, we find that the N-terminal SPN domain is required for the junctional localization of Shank2 and binds to the active form of Rap1 small GTPase, which is involved in TJ formation. Our findings suggest that a close physical and functional relationship between aPKC and Shank2-active Rap1 signaling serves as the platform for TJ assembly to regulate epithelial cell polarity."	1
"32294440"	"Phosphoglycerate Mutase 1 Activates DNA Damage Repair via Regulation of WIP1 Activity.The metabolic enzyme phosphoglycerate mutase 1 (PGAM1) is overexpressed in several types of cancer, suggesting an additional function beyond its established role in the glycolytic pathway. We here report that PGAM1 is overexpressed in gliomas where it increases the efficiency of the DNA damage response (DDR) pathway by cytoplasmic binding of WIP1 phosphatase, thereby preventing WIP1 nuclear translocation and subsequent dephosphorylation of the ATM signaling pathway. Silencing of PGAM1 expression in glioma cells consequently decreases formation of γ-H2AX foci, increases apoptosis, and decreases clonogenicity following irradiation (IR) and temozolomide (TMZ) treatment. Furthermore, mice intracranially implanted with PGAM1-knockdown cells have significantly improved survival after treatment with IR and TMZ. These effects are counteracted by exogenous expression of two kinase-dead PGAM1 mutants, H186R and Y92F, indicating an important non-enzymatic function of PGAM1. Our findings identify PGAM1 as a potential therapeutic target in gliomas."	1
"32433956"	"MAU2 and NIPBL Variants Impair the Heterodimerization of the Cohesin Loader Subunits and Cause Cornelia de Lange Syndrome.The NIPBL/MAU2 heterodimer loads cohesin onto chromatin. Mutations in NIPBL account for most cases of the rare developmental disorder Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS). Here we report a MAU2 variant causing CdLS, a deletion of seven amino acids that impairs the interaction between MAU2 and the NIPBL N terminus. Investigating this interaction, we discovered that MAU2 and the NIPBL N terminus are largely dispensable for normal cohesin and NIPBL function in cells with a NIPBL early truncating mutation. Despite a predicted fatal outcome of an out-of-frame single nucleotide duplication in NIPBL, engineered in two different cell lines, alternative translation initiation yields a form of NIPBL missing N-terminal residues. This form cannot interact with MAU2, but binds DNA and mediates cohesin loading. Altogether, our work reveals that cohesin loading can occur independently of functional NIPBL/MAU2 complexes and highlights a novel mechanism protective against out-of-frame mutations that is potentially relevant for other genetic conditions."	0
"32375051"	"Srebf1 Controls Midbrain Dopaminergic Neurogenesis.Liver X receptors (LXRs) and their ligands are potent regulators of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurogenesis and differentiation. However, the molecular mechanisms by which LXRs control these functions remain to be elucidated. Here, we perform a combined transcriptome and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis of midbrain cells after LXR activation, followed by bioinformatic analysis to elucidate the transcriptional networks controlling mDA neurogenesis. Our results identify the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1) as part of a cluster of proneural transcription factors in radial glia and as a regulator of transcription factors controlling mDA neurogenesis, such as Foxa2. Moreover, loss- and gain-of-function experiments in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that Srebf1 is both required and sufficient for mDA neurogenesis. Our data, thus, identify Srebf1 as a central player in mDA neurogenesis."	1
"32531208"	"Structural and Biochemical Characterization of the nsp12-nsp7-nsp8 Core Polymerase Complex from SARS-CoV-2.The ongoing global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has caused a huge number of human deaths. Currently, there are no specific drugs or vaccines available for this virus (SARS-CoV-2). The viral polymerase is a promising antiviral target. Here, we describe the near-atomic-resolution structure of the SARS-CoV-2 polymerase complex consisting of the nsp12 catalytic subunit and nsp7-nsp8 cofactors. This structure highly resembles the counterpart of SARS-CoV with conserved motifs for all viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases and suggests a mechanism of activation by cofactors. Biochemical studies reveal reduced activity of the core polymerase complex and lower thermostability of individual subunits of SARS-CoV-2 compared with SARS-CoV. These findings provide important insights into RNA synthesis by coronavirus polymerase and indicate adaptation of SARS-CoV-2 toward humans with a relatively lower body temperature than the natural bat hosts."	1
"32755573"	"Lysophosphatidic Acid-Mediated GPR35 Signaling in CX3CR1<sup>+</sup> Macrophages Regulates Intestinal Homeostasis.Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the gene encoding G protein-coupled receptor 35 (GPR35) are associated with increased risk of inflammatory bowel disease. However, the mechanisms by which GPR35 modulates intestinal immune homeostasis remain undefined. Here, integrating zebrafish and mouse experimental models, we demonstrate that intestinal Gpr35 expression is microbiota dependent and enhanced upon inflammation. Moreover, murine GPR35<sup>+</sup> colonic macrophages are characterized by enhanced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. We identify lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) as a potential endogenous ligand produced during intestinal inflammation, acting through GPR35 to induce tumor necrosis factor (Tnf) expression in macrophages. Mice lacking Gpr35 in CX3CR1<sup>+</sup> macrophages aggravate colitis when exposed to dextran sodium sulfate, which is associated with decreased transcript levels of the corticosterone-generating gene Cyp11b1 and macrophage-derived Tnf. Administration of TNF in these mice restores Cyp11b1 expression and intestinal corticosterone production and ameliorates DSS-induced colitis. Our findings indicate that LPA signals through GPR35 in CX3CR1<sup>+</sup> macrophages to maintain TNF-mediated intestinal homeostasis."	0
"32807902"	"p27 controls Ragulator and mTOR activity in amino acid-deprived cells to regulate the autophagy-lysosomal pathway and coordinate cell cycle and cell growth.Autophagy is a catabolic process whereby cytoplasmic components are degraded within lysosomes, allowing cells to maintain energy homeostasis during nutrient depletion. Several studies reported that the CDK inhibitor p27<sup>Kip1</sup> promotes starvation-induced autophagy by an unknown mechanism. Here we find that p27 controls autophagy via an mTORC1-dependent mechanism in amino acid-deprived cells. During prolonged starvation, a fraction of p27 is recruited to lysosomes, where it interacts with LAMTOR1, a component of the Ragulator complex required for mTORC1 activation. Binding of p27 to LAMTOR1 prevents Ragulator assembly and mTORC1 activation, promoting autophagy. Conversely, p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells exhibit elevated mTORC1 signalling as well as impaired lysosomal activity and autophagy. This is associated with cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB, preventing induction of the lysosomal genes required for lysosome function. LAMTOR1 silencing or mTOR inhibition restores autophagy and induces apoptosis in p27<sup>-/-</sup> cells. Together, these results reveal a direct coordinated regulation between the cell cycle and cell growth machineries."	1
"32727845"	"Identification of an anti-SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain-directed human monoclonal antibody from a naïve semisynthetic library.There is a desperate need for safe and effective vaccines, therapies, and diagnostics for SARS- coronavirus 2 (CoV-2), the development of which will be aided by the discovery of potent and selective antibodies against relevant viral epitopes. Human phage display technology has revolutionized the process of identifying and optimizing antibodies, providing facile entry points for further applications. Herein, we use this technology to search for antibodies targeting the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of CoV-2. Specifically, we screened a naïve human semisynthetic phage library against RBD, leading to the identification of a high-affinity single-chain fragment variable region (scFv). The scFv was further engineered into two other antibody formats (scFv-Fc and IgG1). All three antibody formats showed high binding specificity to CoV-2 RBD and the spike antigens in different assay systems. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated specific binding of the IgG1 format to cells expressing membrane-bound CoV-2 spike protein. Docking studies revealed that the scFv recognizes an epitope that partially overlaps with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-interacting sites on the CoV-2 RBD. Given its high specificity and affinity, we anticipate that these anti-CoV-2 antibodies will be useful as valuable reagents for accessing the antigenicity of vaccine candidates, as well as developing antibody-based therapeutics and diagnostics for CoV-2."	0
"32160544"	"Glioblastoma Cell Resistance to EGFR and MET Inhibition Can Be Overcome via Blockade of FGFR-SPRY2 Bypass Signaling.SPRY2 is a purported tumor suppressor in certain cancers that promotes tumor growth and resistance to receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors in glioblastoma. Here, we identify a SPRY2-dependent bypass signaling mechanism in glioblastoma that drives resistance to EGFR and MET inhibition. In glioblastoma cells treated with EGFR and MET inhibitors, SPRY2 expression is initially suppressed but eventually rebounds due to NF-κB pathway activation, resultant autocrine FGFR activation, and reactivation of ERK, which controls SPRY2 transcription. In cells where FGFR autocrine signaling does not occur and ERK does not reactivate, or in which ERK reactivates but SPRY2 cannot be expressed, EGFR and MET inhibitors are more effective at promoting death. The same mechanism also drives acquired resistance to EGFR and MET inhibition. Furthermore, tumor xenografts expressing an ERK-dependent bioluminescent reporter engineered for these studies reveal that this bypass resistance mechanism plays out in vivo but can be overcome through simultaneous FGFR inhibition."	1
"32726620"	"Postsynaptic and Presynaptic NMDARs Have Distinct Roles in Visual Circuit Development.To study contributions of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) in presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons of the developing visual system, we microinject antisense Morpholino oligonucleotide (MO) against GluN1 into one cell of two-cell-stage Xenopus laevis embryos. The resulting bilateral segregation of MO induces postsynaptic NMDAR (postNMDAR) knockdown in tectal neurons on one side and presynaptic NMDAR (preNMDAR) knockdown in ganglion cells projecting to the other side. PostNMDAR knockdown reduces evoked NMDAR- and α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR)-mediated retinotectal currents. Although the frequency of spontaneous synaptic events is increased, the probability of evoked release is reduced. PreNMDAR knockdown results in larger evoked and unitary synaptic responses. Structurally, postNMDAR and preNMDAR knockdown produce complementary effects. Axonal arbor complexity is reduced by preNMDAR-MO and increased by postNMDAR-MO, whereas tectal dendritic arbors exhibit the inverse. The current study illustrates distinct roles for pre- and postNMDARs in circuit development and reveals extensive transsynaptic regulation of form and function."	0
"30612880"	"Multisite Phosphorylation of S6K1 Directs a Kinase Phospho-code that Determines Substrate Selection.Multisite phosphorylation of kinases can induce on-off or graded regulation of catalytic activity; however, its influence on substrate specificity remains unclear. Here, we show that multisite phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) alters target selection. Agonist-inducible phosphorylation of glutamyl-prolyl tRNA synthetase (EPRS) by S6K1 in monocytes and adipocytes requires not only canonical phosphorylation at Thr<sup>389</sup> by mTORC1 but also phosphorylation at Ser<sup>424</sup> and Ser<sup>429</sup> in the C terminus by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). S6K1 phosphorylation at these additional sites induces a conformational switch and is essential for high-affinity binding and phosphorylation of EPRS, but not canonical S6K1 targets, e.g., ribosomal protein S6. Unbiased proteomic analysis identified additional targets phosphorylated by multisite phosphorylated S6K1 in insulin-stimulated adipocytes-namely, coenzyme A synthase, lipocalin 2, and cortactin. Thus, embedded within S6K1 is a target-selective kinase phospho-code that integrates signals from mTORC1 and Cdk5 to direct an insulin-stimulated, post-translational metabolon determining adipocyte lipid metabolism."	1
"32668244"	"The Zscan4-Tet2 Transcription Nexus Regulates Metabolic Rewiring and Enhances Proteostasis to Promote Reprogramming.Evolutionarily conserved SCAN (named after SRE-ZBP, CTfin51, AW-1, and Number 18 cDNA)-domain-containing zinc finger transcription factors (ZSCAN) have been found in both mouse and human genomes. Zscan4 is transiently expressed during zygotic genome activation (ZGA) in preimplantation embryos and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) reprogramming. However, little is known about the mechanism of Zscan4 underlying these processes of cell fate control. Here, we show that Zscan4f, a representative of ZSCAN proteins, is able to recruit Tet2 through its SCAN domain. The Zscan4f-Tet2 interaction promotes DNA demethylation and regulates the expression of target genes, particularly those encoding glycolytic enzymes and proteasome subunits. Zscan4f regulates metabolic rewiring, enhances proteasome function, and ultimately promotes iPSC generation. These results identify Zscan4f as an important partner of Tet2 in regulating target genes and promoting iPSC generation and suggest a possible and common mechanism shared by SCAN family transcription factors to recruit ten-eleven translocation (TET) DNA dioxygenases to regulate diverse cellular processes, including reprogramming."	1
"32231305"	"Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency through Neo1 and Unc5b co-regulation of Wnt and MAPK signalling.In mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), chemical blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 (2i) instructs a self-renewing ground state whose endogenous inducers are unknown. Here we show that the axon guidance cue Netrin-1 promotes naive pluripotency by triggering profound signalling, transcriptomic and epigenetic changes in mESCs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Netrin-1 can substitute for blockade of Gsk3α/β and Mek1/2 to sustain self-renewal of mESCs in combination with leukaemia inhibitory factor and regulates the formation of the mouse pluripotent blastocyst. Mechanistically, we reveal how Netrin-1 and the balance of its receptors Neo1 and Unc5B co-regulate Wnt and MAPK pathways in both mouse and human ESCs. Netrin-1 induces Fak kinase to inactivate Gsk3α/β and stabilize β-catenin while increasing the phosphatase activity of a Ppp2r2c-containing Pp2a complex to reduce Erk1/2 activity. Collectively, this work identifies Netrin-1 as a regulator of pluripotency and reveals that it mediates different effects in mESCs depending on its receptor dosage, opening perspectives for balancing self-renewal and lineage commitment."	1
"32191872"	"Ago2-Dependent Processing Allows miR-451 to Evade the Global MicroRNA Turnover Elicited during Erythropoiesis.MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are sequentially processed by two RNase III enzymes, Drosha and Dicer. miR-451 is the only known miRNA whose processing bypasses Dicer and instead relies on the slicer activity of Argonaute-2 (Ago2). miR-451 is highly conserved in vertebrates and regulates erythrocyte maturation, where it becomes the most abundant miRNA. However, the basis for the non-canonical biogenesis of miR-451 is unclear. Here, we show that Ago2 is less efficient than Dicer in processing pre-miRNAs, but this deficit is overcome when miR-144 represses Dicer in a negative-feedback loop during erythropoiesis. Loss of miR-144-mediated Dicer repression in zebrafish embryos and human cells leads to increased canonical miRNA production and impaired miR-451 maturation. Overexpression of Ago2 rescues some of the defects of miR-451 processing. Thus, the evolution of Ago2-dependent processing allows miR-451 to circumvent the global repression of canonical miRNAs elicited, in part, by the miR-144 targeting of Dicer during erythropoiesis."	1
"31422874"	"Naa10p Inhibits Beige Adipocyte-Mediated Thermogenesis through N-α-acetylation of Pgc1α.Diet-induced obesity can be caused by impaired thermogenesis of beige adipocytes, the brown-like adipocytes in white adipose tissue (WAT). Promoting brown-like features in WAT has been an attractive therapeutic approach for obesity. However, the mechanism underlying beige adipocyte formation is largely unknown. N-α-acetyltransferase 10 protein (Naa10p) catalyzes N-α-acetylation of nascent proteins, and overexpression of human Naa10p is linked to cancer development. Here, we report that both conventional and adipose-specific Naa10p deletions in mice result in increased energy expenditure, thermogenesis, and beige adipocyte differentiation. Mechanistically, Naa10p acetylates the N terminus of Pgc1α, which prevents Pgc1α from interacting with Pparγ to activate key genes, such as Ucp1, involved in beige adipocyte function. Consistently, fat tissues of obese human individuals show higher NAA10 expression. Thus, Naa10p-mediated N-terminal acetylation of Pgc1α downregulates thermogenic gene expression, making inhibition of Naa10p enzymatic activity a potential strategy for treating obesity."	1
"32268094"	"A Modular Differentiation System Maps Multiple Human Kidney Lineages from Pluripotent Stem Cells.Recent studies using human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) have developed protocols to induce kidney-lineage cells and reconstruct kidney organoids. However, the separate generation of metanephric nephron progenitors (NPs), mesonephric NPs, and ureteric bud (UB) cells, which constitute embryonic kidneys, in in vitro differentiation culture systems has not been fully investigated. Here, we create a culture system in which these mesoderm-like cell types and paraxial and lateral plate mesoderm-like cells are separately generated from hPSCs. We recapitulate nephrogenic niches from separately induced metanephric NP-like and UB-like cells, which are subsequently differentiated into glomeruli, renal tubules, and collecting ducts in vitro and further vascularized in vivo. Our selective differentiation protocols should contribute to understanding the mechanisms underlying human kidney development and disease and also supply cell sources for regenerative therapies."	0
"32698014"	"Tissue-Specific Regulation of the Wnt/β-Catenin Pathway by PAGE4 Inhibition of Tankyrase.Spatiotemporal control of Wnt/β-catenin signaling is critical for organism development and homeostasis. The poly-(ADP)-ribose polymerase Tankyrase (TNKS1) promotes Wnt/β-catenin signaling through PARylation-mediated degradation of AXIN1, a component of the β-catenin destruction complex. Although Wnt/β-catenin is a niche-restricted signaling program, tissue-specific factors that regulate TNKS1 are not known. Here, we report prostate-associated gene 4 (PAGE4) as a tissue-specific TNKS1 inhibitor that robustly represses canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling in human cells, zebrafish, and mice. Structural and biochemical studies reveal that PAGE4 acts as an optimal substrate decoy that potently hijacks substrate binding sites on TNKS1 to prevent AXIN1 PARylation and degradation. Consistently, transgenic expression of PAGE4 in mice phenocopies TNKS1 knockout. Physiologically, PAGE4 is selectively expressed in stromal prostate fibroblasts and functions to establish a proper Wnt/β-catenin signaling niche through suppression of autocrine signaling. Our findings reveal a non-canonical mechanism for TNKS1 inhibition that functions to establish tissue-specific control of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway."	1
"32681820"	"High-Resolution Whole-Genome Analysis of Sister-Chromatid Contacts.Sister-chromatid cohesion describes the orderly association of newly replicated DNA molecules behind replication forks. It plays an essential role in the maintenance and faithful transmission of genetic information. Cohesion is created by DNA topological links and proteinaceous bridges, whose formation and deposition could be potentially affected by many processes. Current knowledge on cohesion has been mainly gained by fluorescence microscopy observation. However, the resolution limit of microscopy and the restricted number of genomic positions that can be simultaneously visualized considerably hampered progress. Here, we present a high-throughput methodology to monitor sister-chromatid contacts (Hi-SC2). Using the multi-chromosomal Vibrio cholerae bacterium as a model, we show that Hi-SC2 permits to monitor local variations in sister-chromatid cohesion at a high resolution over a whole genome."	0
"32433974"	"Interplay between Liver X Receptor and Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1α Potentiates Interleukin-1β Production in Human Macrophages.Low-grade inflammation is constitutive of atherosclerosis, and anti-inflammatory therapy inhibiting interleukin-1β (IL-1β) reduces the rate of cardiovascular events. While cholesterol accumulation in atheroma plaque and macrophages is a major driver of the inflammatory process, the role of the LXR cholesterol sensors remains to be clarified. Murine and human macrophages were treated with LXR agonists for 48 h before Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation. Unexpectedly, we observe that, among other cytokines, LXR agonists selectively increase IL1B mRNA levels independently of TLR activation. This effect, restricted to human macrophages, is mediated by activation of HIF-1α through LXR. Accordingly, LXR agonists also potentiate other HIF-1α-dependent pathways, such as glycolysis. Treatment of human macrophages with carotid plaque homogenates also leads to induction of IL1B in an LXR-dependent manner. Thus, our work discloses a mechanism by which cholesterol and oxysterols trigger inflammation in atherosclerosis. This suggests perspectives to target IL-1β production in atherosclerotic patients."	1
"32579914"	"NeuroD1 Dictates Tumor Cell Differentiation in Medulloblastoma.Tumor cells are characterized by unlimited proliferation and perturbed differentiation. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we demonstrate that tumor cells in medulloblastoma (MB) retain their capacity to differentiate in a similar way as their normal originating cells, cerebellar granule neuron precursors. Once they differentiate, MB cells permanently lose their proliferative capacity and tumorigenic potential. Differentiated MB cells highly express NeuroD1, a helix-loop-helix transcription factor, and forced expression of NeuroD1 promotes the differentiation of MB cells. The expression of NeuroD1 in bulk MB cells is repressed by trimethylation of histone 3 lysine-27 (H3K27me3). Inhibition of the histone lysine methyltransferase EZH2 prevents H3K27 trimethylation, resulting in increased NeuroD1 expression and enhanced differentiation in MB cells, which consequently reduces tumor growth. These studies reveal the mechanisms underlying MB cell differentiation and provide rationales to treat MB (potentially other malignancies) by stimulating tumor cell differentiation."	1
"31444106"	"Conserved Pseudoknots in lncRNA MEG3 Are Essential for Stimulation of the p53 Pathway.Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are key regulatory molecules, but unlike with other RNAs, the direct link between their tertiary structure motifs and their function has proven elusive. Here we report structural and functional studies of human maternally expressed gene 3 (MEG3), a tumor suppressor lncRNA that modulates the p53 response. We found that, in an evolutionary conserved region of MEG3, two distal motifs interact by base complementarity to form alternative, mutually exclusive pseudoknot structures (""kissing loops""). Mutations that disrupt these interactions impair MEG3-dependent p53 stimulation in vivo and disrupt MEG3 folding in vitro. These findings provide mechanistic insights into regulation of the p53 pathway by MEG3 and reveal how conserved motifs of tertiary structure can regulate lncRNA biological function."	0
"32783947"	"NACHO Engages N-Glycosylation ER Chaperone Pathways for α7 Nicotinic Receptor Assembly.The α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor participates in diverse aspects of brain physiology and disease. Neurons tightly control α7 assembly, which relies upon NACHO, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-localized integral membrane protein. By constructing α7 chimeras and mutants, we find that NACHO requires the α7 ectodomain to promote receptor assembly and surface trafficking. Also critical are two amino acids in the α7 second transmembrane domain. NACHO-mediated assembly is independent and separable from that induced by cholinergic ligands or RIC-3 protein, the latter of which acts on the large α7 intracellular loop. Proteomics indicates that NACHO associates with the ER oligosaccharyltransferase machinery and with calnexin. Accordingly, NACHO-mediated effects on α7 assembly and channel function require N-glycosylation and calnexin chaperone activity. These studies identify ER pathways that mediate α7 assembly by NACHO and provide insights into novel pharmacological strategies for these crucial nicotinic receptors."	0
"30773298"	"Histone Acetyltransferase p300 Induces De Novo Super-Enhancers to Drive Cellular Senescence.Accumulation of senescent cells during aging contributes to chronic inflammation and age-related diseases. While senescence is associated with profound alterations of the epigenome, a systematic view of epigenetic factors in regulating senescence is lacking. Here, we curated a library of short hairpin RNAs for targeted silencing of all known epigenetic proteins and performed a high-throughput screen to identify key candidates whose downregulation can delay replicative senescence of primary human cells. This screen identified multiple new players including the histone acetyltransferase p300 that was found to be a primary driver of the senescent phenotype. p300, but not the paralogous CBP, induces a dynamic hyper-acetylated chromatin state and promotes the formation of active enhancer elements in the non-coding genome, leading to a senescence-specific gene expression program. Our work illustrates a causal role of histone acetyltransferases and acetylation in senescence and suggests p300 as a potential therapeutic target for senescence and age-related diseases."	0
"30642763"	"The RNA-Binding Protein PUM2 Impairs Mitochondrial Dynamics and Mitophagy During Aging.Little information is available about how post-transcriptional mechanisms regulate the aging process. Here, we show that the RNA-binding protein Pumilio2 (PUM2), which is a translation repressor, is induced upon aging and acts as a negative regulator of lifespan and mitochondrial homeostasis. Multi-omics and cross-species analyses of PUM2 function show that it inhibits the translation of the mRNA encoding for the mitochondrial fission factor (Mff), thereby impairing mitochondrial fission and mitophagy. This mechanism is conserved in C. elegans by the PUM2 ortholog PUF-8. puf-8 knock-down in old nematodes and Pum2 CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout in the muscles of elderly mice enhances mitochondrial fission and mitophagy in both models, hence improving mitochondrial quality control and tissue homeostasis. Our data reveal how a PUM2-mediated layer of post-transcriptional regulation links altered Mff translation to mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy, thereby mediating age-related mitochondrial dysfunctions."	1
"31226276"	"Regulatory Landscaping: How Enhancer-Promoter Communication Is Sculpted in 3D.During embryogenesis, precise gene transcription in space and time requires that distal enhancers and promoters communicate by physical proximity within gene regulatory landscapes. To achieve this, regulatory landscapes fold in nuclear space, creating complex 3D structures that influence enhancer-promoter communication and gene expression and that, when disrupted, can cause disease. Here, we provide an overview of how enhancers and promoters construct regulatory landscapes and how multiple scales of 3D chromatin structure sculpt their communication. We focus on emerging views of what enhancer-promoter contacts and chromatin domains physically represent and how two antagonistic fundamental forces-loop extrusion and homotypic attraction-likely form them. We also examine how these same forces spatially separate regulatory landscapes by functional state, thereby creating higher-order compartments that reconfigure during development to enable proper enhancer-promoter communication."	0
"32001513"	"Noncoding SNPs influence a distinct phase of Polycomb silencing to destabilize long-term epigenetic memory at <i>Arabidopsis FLC</i>.In <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i>, the cold-induced epigenetic regulation of <i>FLOWERING LOCUS C</i> (<i>FLC</i>) involves distinct phases of Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) silencing. During cold, a PHD-PRC2 complex metastably and digitally nucleates H3K27me3 within <i>FLC</i> On return to warm, PHD-PRC2 spreads across the locus delivering H3K27me3 to maintain long-term silencing. Here, we studied natural variation in this process in <i>Arabidopsis</i> accessions, exploring Lov-1, which shows <i>FLC</i> reactivation on return to warm, a feature characteristic of <i>FLC</i> in perennial <i>Brassicaceae</i> This analysis identifies an additional phase in this Polycomb silencing mechanism downstream from H3K27me3 spreading. In this long-term silencing (perpetuated) phase, the PHD proteins are lost from the nucleation region and silencing is likely maintained by the read-write feedbacks associated with H3K27me3. A combination of noncoding SNPs in the nucleation region mediates instability in this long-term silencing phase with the result that Lov-1 <i>FLC</i> frequently digitally reactivates in individual cells, with a probability that diminishes with increasing cold duration. We propose that this decrease in reactivation probability is due to reduced DNA replication after flowering. Overall, this work defines an additional phase in the Polycomb mechanism instrumental in natural variation of silencing, and provides avenues to dissect broader evolutionary changes at <i>FLC</i>."	0
"32532818"	"Plasticity of the peroxidase AhpC links multiple substrates to diverse disulfide-reducing pathways in <i>Shewanella oneidensis</i>.AhpC is a bacterial representative of 2-Cys peroxiredoxins (Prxs) with broad substrate specificity and functional plasticity. However, details underpinning these two important attributes of AhpC remain unclear. Here, we studied the functions and mechanisms of regulation of AhpC in the facultative Gram-negative anaerobic bacterium <i>Shewanella oneidensis</i>, in which AhpC's physiological roles can be conveniently assessed through its suppression of a plating defect due to the genetic loss of a major catalase. We show that successful suppression can be achieved only when AhpC is produced in a dose- and time-dependent manner through a complex mechanism involving activation of the transcriptional regulator OxyR, transcription attenuation, and translation reduction. By analyzing AhpC truncation variants, we demonstrate that reactivity with organic peroxides (OPs) rather than H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> is resilient to mutagenesis, implying that OP reduction is the core catalytic function of AhpC. Intact AhpC could be recycled only by its cognate reductase AhpF, and AhpC variants lacking the Prx domain or the extreme C-terminal five residues became promiscuous electron acceptors from the thioredoxin reductase TrxR and the GSH reductase Gor in addition to AhpF, implicating an additional dimension to functional plasticity of AhpC. Finally, we show that the activity of <i>S. oneidensis</i> AhpC is less affected by mutations than that of its <i>Escherichia coli</i> counterpart. These findings suggest that the physiological roles of bacterial AhpCs are adapted to different oxidative challenges, depending on the organism, and that its functional plasticity is even more extensive than previously reported."	0
"31995755"	"Altered Hippocampal-Prefrontal Neural Dynamics in Mouse Models of Down Syndrome.Altered neural dynamics in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus may contribute to cognitive impairments in the complex chromosomal disorder Down syndrome (DS). Here, we demonstrate non-overlapping behavioral differences associated with distinct abnormalities in hippocampal and mPFC electrophysiology during a canonical spatial working memory task in three partially trisomic mouse models of DS (Dp1Tyb, Dp10Yey, and Dp17Yey) that together cover all regions of homology with human chromosome 21 (Hsa21). Dp1Tyb mice show slower decision-making (unrelated to the gene dose of DYRK1A, which has been implicated in DS cognitive dysfunction) and altered theta dynamics (reduced frequency, increased hippocampal-mPFC coherence, and increased modulation of hippocampal high gamma); Dp10Yey mice show impaired alternation performance and reduced theta modulation of hippocampal low gamma; and Dp17Yey mice are not significantly different from the wild type. These results link specific hippocampal and mPFC circuit dysfunctions to cognitive deficits in DS models and, importantly, map them to discrete regions of Hsa21."	0
"31914378"	"CaMKII versus DAPK1 Binding to GluN2B in Ischemic Neuronal Cell Death after Resuscitation from Cardiac Arrest.DAPK1 binding to GluN2B was prominently reported to mediate ischemic cell death in vivo. DAPK1 and CaMKII bind to the same GluN2B region, and their binding is mutually exclusive. Here, we show that mutating the binding region on GluN2B (L1298A/R1300Q) protected against neuronal cell death induced by cardiac arrest followed by resuscitation. Importantly, the GluN2B mutation selectively abolished only CaMKII, but not DAPK1, binding. During ischemic or excitotoxic insults, CaMKII further accumulated at excitatory synapses, and this accumulation was mediated by GluN2B binding. Interestingly, extra-synaptic GluN2B decreased after ischemia, but its relative association with DAPK1 increased. Thus, ischemic neuronal death requires CaMKII binding to synaptic GluN2B, whereas any potential role for DAPK1 binding is restricted to a different, likely extra-synaptic population of GluN2B."	0
"31919192"	"Aurora B-dependent Ndc80 degradation regulates kinetochore composition in meiosis.The kinetochore complex is a conserved machinery that connects chromosomes to spindle microtubules. During meiosis, the kinetochore is restructured to accommodate a specialized chromosome segregation pattern. In budding yeast, meiotic kinetochore remodeling is mediated by the temporal changes in the abundance of a single subunit called Ndc80. We previously described the regulatory events that control the timely synthesis of Ndc80. Here, we report that Ndc80 turnover is also tightly regulated in meiosis: Ndc80 degradation is active in meiotic prophase, but not in metaphase I. Ndc80 degradation depends on the ubiquitin ligase APC<sup>Ama1</sup> and is mediated by the proteasome. Importantly, Aurora B-dependent Ndc80 phosphorylation, a mark that has been previously implicated in correcting erroneous microtubule-kinetochore attachments, is essential for Ndc80 degradation in a microtubule-independent manner. The N terminus of Ndc80, including a 27-residue sequence and Aurora B phosphorylation sites, is both necessary and sufficient for kinetochore protein degradation. Finally, defects in Ndc80 turnover predispose meiotic cells to chromosome mis-segregation. Our study elucidates the mechanism by which meiotic cells modulate their kinetochore composition through regulated Ndc80 degradation, and demonstrates that Aurora B-dependent regulation of kinetochores extends beyond altering microtubule attachments."	1
"32268106"	"T Cell Factor 1 Suppresses CD103+ Lung Tissue-Resident Memory T Cell Development.T cell factor 1 (Tcf1) promotes the central memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T (T<sub>CM</sub>) cell differentiation and stemness in lymphoid tissues after systemic infections. It remains unclear whether Tcf1 regulates the CD103<sup>high</sup> tissue-resident memory CD8<sup>+</sup> T (T<sub>RM</sub>) cell formation in non-lymphoid tissues after mucosal infections. We find that Tcf1 is progressively decreased during lung T<sub>RM</sub> cell formation. Abrogation of transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling is associated with a loss of CD103<sup>+</sup> and reciprocal gain of Tcf1<sup>+</sup> cells among T<sub>RM</sub> precursors in vivo. T-cell-specific ablation of Tcf7 enhances CD103 protein expression in T<sub>RM</sub> cells and precursors and increases T<sub>RM</sub> cell numbers after primary and secondary infections. Tcf1 directly binds to the Itgae (encoding CD103) locus and partly inhibits TGF-β-induced CD103 expression. Our study suggests that memory T cell tissue residency and homeostatic proliferation are reciprocally regulated by Tcf1. Tcf1 may play either immunosupportive or immunosuppressive roles in CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, depending on systemic or mucosal infections."	1
